+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP048"
sort_id = 133
timestamp = "2/13/2020 16:34:12"
form_email = "mdunstan@cityofboise.org"
session_title = "Where Creativity Dwells: Residencies as the Future of Museum Programming"
session_desc = """Residencies are increasingly being recognized as a valuable tool for bringing new audiences and ideas into museum settings, yet there is little consistency in the approach or language around these programs. This session will explore questions of what a residency can be, as well as the challenges, opportunities and audiences associated with them. Come hear examples from several institutions, each with a distinct mission, as they discuss different approaches to residency programs."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "communityengagement"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session is unique and innovative as we (the museum community) have not yet established consistency or best practices when it comes to residencies It is also timely as residencies are quickly becoming a more common form of programming."""
session_objectives = """Objectives: • Define what a residency is and why it can be a valuable program for museums.  • Identify some of the challenges, opportunities, and audiences associated with residency programs.  • Analyze and consider the current and changing language around residency programs. • View examples of residency programs found in a variety of museums, institutions, and organizations. Outcomes: • Audience members will be able to identify and compare different types of residency programs. • Audience members will be able to identify and summarize the value, challenges, opportunities, audiences, and language associated with residency programs. • Audience members will understand how to utilize resources (Residency Question Guide and Residency Resources) provided during session to support ongoing work."""
session_engagement = """The audience will initially be in an observational/listening role as panelists give brief introductions to their programs and respond to questions posed by moderator. After this, audience members will use the “Residency Question Guide” to guide small group discussions. Finally, audience members can ask questions to panel members regarding their residency programs, challenges, opportunities, tips, etc. See the “Run Of Show” document for more details."""
session_scalability = """Our session was planned specifically to address a wide range of organization types, sizes, funding, etc. and how all these spaces have the potential for developing a successful residency program. """
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, General Audience, Education, Outreach"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """n/a"""
theme_relationship = """Residencies are increasingly being recognized as a valuable tool for bringing new audiences and ideas into museum settings. It is important to establish an open dialogue between institutions to develop best practices and clear communication about what these programs are, and what they are capable of becoming."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "mollywilmoth"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Makenzi"
last_name = "Dunstan"
title = "Cultural Sites Education and Outreach Coordinator"
institution = "James Castle House, Boise City Department of Arts & History"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-680-7790"
email = "mdunstan@cityofboise.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """I will be moderating the session. I'll give the introduction to the session, manage panelist presentations, and facilitate the session activity and Q&A."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Kristen"
last_name = "Hill"
title = "Cultural Sites Program Coordinator"
institution = "James Castle House, Boise City Department of Arts & History"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-336-6610"
email = ""
email2 = "khill@cityofboise.org"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As the program manager for the James Castle House, Kristen established and continues to oversee the residency program. Her work focuses on the experience each of the residents has on site and establishing a symbiotic relationship between the residency and the community."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Martha"
last_name = "Williams"
title = "Programs and Education Manager"
institution = "Hemingway House, Community Library"
location = "Ketchum, Idaho"
tel = ""
email = "mwilliams@comlib.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Martha oversees the newly founded residency program at the Hemingway House. She brings a unique perspective on the challenge between being a responsible steward of a historic home and established legacy, while also navigating what this fledgling program can become."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Diana"
last_name = "Banning"
title = "City Archivist"
institution = "Portland Archives, City of Portland "
location = "Portland, Oregon"
tel = "503-865-4110"
email = "Diana.banning@portlandoregon.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Diana oversees the residency program offered by the City of Portland Archives. This program was established to contextualize the city’s history for contemporary audiences through art and community outreach projects. While also connected to a municipality, it follows a very different model than the James Castle House."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Carolina"
last_name = "Chambers"
title = "Portal to the Public Project Coordinator"
institution = "Pacific Science Center "
location = "Seattle, Washington"
tel = "206-443-2001"
email = "cchambers@pacsci.org"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Through her work as Portal to the Public Project Coordinator at the Pacific Science Center, Carolina oversees the museum’s artist-in-residence program. This program explores the connections between art and STEM, offering an opportunity for artist to collaborate directly with scientists in their work to something unexpected to the museum’s primary audiences."""
+++
Residencies are increasingly being recognized as a valuable tool for bringing new audiences and ideas into museum settings, yet there is little consistency in the approach or language around these programs. This session will explore questions of what a residency can be, as well as the challenges, opportunities and audiences associated with them. Come hear examples from several institutions, each with a distinct mission, as they discuss different approaches to residency programs.