+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP103"
sort_id = 166
timestamp = "2/18/2020 13:37:14"
form_email = "wjamesburns@hotmail.com"
session_title = "Museums, Activism, and the Public Trust"
session_desc = """Building off the 2019 session, Museums are Places that are Quietly Subversive, thought leaders in the field will explore the tensions between pushing the activism boundary and maintaining the public trust. How can our organizations tackle exclusive practices and systems, and actively engage in inclusive practices without alienating existing audiences, the people who most need to hear the message? Can a museum engage in inclusion work or nullify exclusionary practices without taking an activist stance?"""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "communityengagement"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Format allows for a facilitated ongoing discussion about the tension in our field between those who wish to move museums forward in radical, innovative ways, and those who face substantial barriers, and risk losing their audiences for engaging in such work."""
session_objectives = """1) The intended audience for this session includes any museum professional who wishes to engage in inclusion, and equity work, whether in a large progressive city or a conservative small town. Based on discussion in small breakout groups, audience members will develop their own ideas about how to bring more inclusive practices and audience engagement techniques to museums of all sizes, disciplines, and geographic locations. Participants should glean at least a couple of concrete ideas that they could try to implement in their museum. 2) Participants will develop a sense of community and shared purpose by meeting other professionals who are struggling with the very same challenges of how to engage in inclusion and equity work when they are being told by their boss or their board that they can’t do anything partisan at work, anything that takes a stance on a particular issue, or sometimes, even express an opinion outside of work. By growing their network, participants will gain new resources to call upon when they are back in their museum and encounter a challenge when trying to advance inclusion in their institution. 3) By going beyond the foundational concept that no organization or person is neutral, the session will investigate the contrasting realities faced by museum professionals from big cities to small towns, progressive bubbles to conservative strongholds. Participants and presenters will expand the conversation about the perceived or purported neutrality of museums to explore the tensions in their own institutions and the field at large."""
session_engagement = """Moderator will ask presenters one question; presenters will each have 5 minutes to answer. Moderator will then pose two open-ended questions to the audience, as them to break up into groups of 5-6, and spend 30 minutes discussing those questions before reconvening and reporting out to the full audience for the final 30 minutes.  Takeaways will include: 1. A reading list (exact titles TBD) 2. Compilation of notes from each of the breakout groups. 3.  Resources from the Cultural Advocacy Coalition of Oregon."""
session_scalability = """Presenters were chosen to represent as many perspectives as possible: Urban and rural. Various disciplines – history, art, natural history. Moderator has experience working in all of the above. """
audience = "General Audience"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """Have presenters."""
theme_relationship = """Session relates to the Forward theme as it is focused on embracing inclusion and equity, and ways that museums can act as agents of social change / social justice / activism. This is an ongoing discussion about pushing boundaries to be inclusive of new audiences while not alienating existing audiences. Presenters may touch on innovative partnerships and will certainly address museums as social change incubators."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "lynnfederleorr"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "James"
last_name = "Burns"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Arizona Historical Society"
location = "Tempe, AZ"
tel = "602.509.8523"
email = "wjamesburns@hotmail.com"
email2 = "wjamesburns@hotmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """James has worked in history, art and anthropology museums of all sizes in small towns and large cities in the Southwest and the Deep South over a period of almost 30 years. Having worked in many organizations in rural areas and conservative cities, he well understands the barriers to inclusion and equity work. He will guide the conversation to ensure meaningful take-away messages. James has spent much of his career working in conservative regions of the country; while he now represents a large statewide organization, he understands the challenges faced by small or rural museums and is sensitive to the concerns of museum professionals just beginning inclusion work. He is an ally for inclusion and equity for communities of color. Allies are vital in the effort to reshape systems of exclusion in the field."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Micah"
last_name = "Parzen"
title = "CEO"
institution = "San Diego Museum of Man"
location = "San Diego, CA"
tel = "619.239.2001 ext. 10"
email = "mparzen@museumofman.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Micah has been engaged in decolonization work for over 10 years at the San Diego Museum of Man. See MUSEUM article Summer 2019. He also has an article in the Jan/Feb issue of MUSEUM about the importance of directors supporting IDEA work, and specifically addressing the decolonizing work the San Diego Museum of Man has done with collections. He is an ally for inclusion and equity for communities of color. Allies are vital in the effort to reshape systems of exclusion in the field."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Dana"
last_name = "Whitelaw"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "High Desert Museum"
location = "Bend, OR"
tel = "541.382.4754"
email = "dwhitelaw@highdesertmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Dana serves on the board of the Cultural Advocacy Coalition of Oregon. The High Desert Museum has been working on pushing the boundaries of its audiences with new topics and content that are sometimes unexpected. As an organization, board, staff, and volunteers, they are learning how to engage audiences that might be reluctant to see lesser known stories. This is an important topic for all museums to be delving into as we explore content that is more relevant and sometimes uncomfortable. She is an ally for inclusion and equity for communities of color. Allies are vital in the effort to reshape systems of exclusion in the field."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "James G."
last_name = "Leventhal"
title = "Interim Director"
institution = "Museum of the African Diaspora"
location = "San Francisco, CA"
tel = "unknown"
email = "jamesgleventhal@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """MOAD has taken up the charge to be more inclusive in recruiting staff and board members. They embrace nontraditional pathways for identifying and supporting black leadership to address long-standing barriers to entry. This work begins inside the institution, and does not hinge solely on outreach to underserved populations.  Since its inception the Museum of the African Diaspora (MoAD) has been dedicated to diversification in the national museum leadership ranks. Now, MoAD is poised to help take its next steps with a focus on: Training the current and next set of cultural leaders and artists Asserting the Museum’s position of local impact and global significance with a focus on Black leadership, especially in its work through Emerging Artist Program (EAP), artistic and professional internship programs and online collaborations Displaying the impact of Black leadership in museums and across the cultural field and in the communities we serve, Including the thoughtful and strategic recruitment of new Board members.   James is an ally for inclusion and equity for communities of color. Allies are vital in the effort to reshape systems of exclusion in the field."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Building off the 2019 session, Museums are Places that are Quietly Subversive, thought leaders in the field will explore the tensions between pushing the activism boundary and maintaining the public trust. How can our organizations tackle exclusive practices and systems, and actively engage in inclusive practices without alienating existing audiences, the people who most need to hear the message? Can a museum engage in inclusion work or nullify exclusionary practices without taking an activist stance?