+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP077"
sort_id = 138
timestamp = "2/13/2020 19:01:12"
form_email = "anna.pappalardo@ubc.ca"
session_title = "Publishing in Museums Today."
session_desc = """Many museums engage in producing books and printed and digital material about their exhibitions and collections.  This session will focus on options open to museums in terms of publishing, from high-end catalogues to community-based zines.  Four museums with different publishing initiatives will share their experiences. Topics covered will include working with publishers and presses, managing publications in-house, and digital and community-based initiatives."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "other"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """There has not been a session on publishing at the WMA in the last ten years. This session will be valuable to museum professionals considering whether and how  to publish based on the needs of their particular institution."""
session_objectives = """Participants will learn about options open to museums in terms of self-publish, co-publish, and digital publishing.  They will learn how to make informed decisions concerning publishing, as well as clarify what they hope to achieve through printing books and other materials. They will learn about some innovative initiatives to produce digital publications developed in conjunction with communities.     The session will answer common questions:  Where do I start? What are my objectives? How do I estimate how much it will cost and how long it will take? How do I ensure I get my publication into people’s hands? What are the benefits of print vs digital? What resources are out there to help me with this work?    The session will conclude with concrete resources attendees can utilize: sample budgets, timelines, and contract language; glossary of publishing terms; examples of publication projects from the panelists; and other aggregate resource sites that attendees can access."""
session_engagement = """The presentation will be interactive, including a combination of panel discussion and audience response. Each panelist will briefly describe specific publication projects created by their institution followed by a discussion examining a range of topics including working with publishers and presses, managing publications in-house, digital and community-based initiatives, budgets, contracts, and timelines. Session attendees will be encouraged to ask questions of the panelists and share their own experiences."""
session_scalability = """Resource materials will be designed to be useful for those undertaking publishing initiatives for the first time and/or moving into another publishing sphere (ie digital).  Some of the basic questions -- whether to publish and how -- are important to institutions of all types and sizes."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Marketing & Communications (Including Social Media), Technology, Development/Membership, General Audience, Administrators"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """With the rise of the digital, there are now more ways to deliver content and information to audiences.  Yet for many museums, traditional printed books and publications continue to be core to their publishing initiatives.  The session will investigate how publishing is changing as we move forward and our audiences’ expectations and interests change."""
theme_comments = """By offering a range of presenters with very different experience we hope that the session will be of benefit to those considering publishing for the first time, as well as those with expertise in one area -- such as print publishing -- but no experience in digital.  """
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "marendougherty"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Anna"
last_name = "Pappalardo"
title = "Assistant Director"
institution = "Museum of Anthropology at UBC"
location = "Vancouver, BC  Canada"
tel = "604 734-2533"
email = "anna.pappalardo@ubc.ca"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Anna has been involved in funding and contractual arrangements for MOA’s publishing initiatives for over 10 years.  This includes a series of hard cover books on MOA’s exhibitions and collections co-published with Figure 1 Publishing.  The Museum also self-publishes and she can speak to how they make decisions about their overall publishing program."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Greg "
last_name = "Albers"
title = "Digital Publication Manager"
institution = "J. Paul Getty Trust"
location = "Los Angeles, CA"
tel = "310-440-6067"
email = "galbers@getty.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """At the Getty, Greg has produced numerous open access digital publications and is the product manager for Quire, a multiformat digital publishing tool that the Getty is developing to release as open source software. He has spoken extensively over the last decade about digital publishing in museums at conferences including MCN, Museums and the Web, AAM, and the National Museum Publishing Seminar. He is also a co-lead of the Museum Publishing Digital Interest Group, a Slack and email community of over 200 professionals in the sector."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Zoe"
last_name = "Donnell"
title = "Exhibitions and Publications Manager"
institution = "Tacoma Art Gallery"
location = "Tacoma, WA"
tel = "253 272 4258 x 3032"
email = "zdonnell@tacomaartmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Tacoma Art Museum has embraced an ambitious publication program over the past ten years. Working within a small staff and limited budgets the museum has remained committed to print publications, including a series that is devoted to the art and artists of the Pacific Northwest. In addition, TAM has created both large and small-scale exhibition catalogues and collection catalogues, working with multiple book designers and presses in various co-publishing and distribution arrangements. Zoe has been the project manager for these publications, negotiating publication contracts, maintaining production schedules, shepherding the publication through galleys, and orchestrating publication shipping and storage on-site."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Sarah S."
last_name = "Wilson"
title = "Director of Education"
institution = "Autry Museum of the American West"
location = "Los Angeles, CA"
tel = "323 495 4309"
email = "swilson@theautry.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Sarah has worked on exhibition-related and education-related publications for the Autry Museum of the American West. She edited the three issues of the Citizen Journalism Project, an education outreach program for the Autry’s La Raza exhibition. She has also worked on a deliberation guide for middle school and high school students, as well as gallery guides for exhibitions."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Many museums engage in producing books and printed and digital material about their exhibitions and collections.  This session will focus on options open to museums in terms of publishing, from high-end catalogues to community-based zines.  Four museums with different publishing initiatives will share their experiences. Topics covered will include working with publishers and presses, managing publications in-house, and digital and community-based initiatives.