+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP085"
sort_id = 160
timestamp = "2/14/2020 21:08:47"
form_email = "dwhitelaw@highdesertmuseum.org"
session_title = "Weaving Stories: Tribal and Non-tribal Museum Partnerships"
session_desc = """Many museums are working on indigenizing their work, programs, exhibitions and institutions. A clear path and protocol for this work does not yet exist to move our organizations forward. Encouragingly, several institutions are working together in unique ways to find a path. In Central Oregon, two museums have a unique opportunity to use partnership, relationship building and creative professional development workshops to leverage their expertise and place-based focus. This session will provide clear insights about building relationships, moving partnerships forward between tribal and non-tribal institutions."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "indigenous"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session will explore a unique tribal/non-tribal museum partnership that is inspiring, insightful and replicable at other motivated institutions."""
session_objectives = """Session attendees will learn and gain an understanding about: 1. Building meaningful, mutually beneficial relationships between tribal and non-tribal museums 2. Creating professional development opportunities to build capacity around indigenizing organizations. 3. Indigenizing learning, evaluation, and institutions in a place-based, long-term, mutually beneficial manner. Attendees will gain an understanding of how each process and context is so unique for tribal and non-tribal partnerships. Also, we have found that people tend to look for simple template or “best practices” when it’s more of a process that can be messy, unclear, and emergent. We will focus on ways to engage, challenges faced, and insights gained. Tangible takeaways include resources on tribal partnerships, incorporating indigenous evaluation, and partnership best practices. We intend all audiences to glean relevant insight from this session--our approach in the partnership is to create engagement in all levels of our museums."""
session_engagement = """We thought that starting with short presentations from the participants perspectives would be helpful to then move into small, group and a think/pair/share with some prompting questions: What partnerships are they already engaged in? What partnerships might benefit their work around indigenizing? What does it mean to indigenize the museum? What’s driving that decision, and what does that look like? Is the institution ready and how would you know? Are you looking for marginal change or transformation?"""
session_scalability = """The outcomes are applicable to all institutions - we will present a process that can be adopted and adapted."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, General Audience, Board members"
level = "Student, Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This session relates to the theme of FORWARD by delving into being forward thinking and the crucial need to address the colonial histories and institutional structures of museums both as an ethical imperative and a way to be leaders in society and to remain relevant. Moreover, this session helps move the conversation forward to shift the dominant narrative and provide a counter narrative."""
theme_comments = """We believe this will be valuable for many levels and departmental roles, especially for those interested or already engaged in partnerships between tribal and non-tribal museums. We will facilitate a discussion with guided questions in small groups at the end of the panel. Additionally, this session is very important for individuals on Boards and in other leadership and decision-making roles."""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "angelaneller"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Dana"
last_name = "Whitelaw"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "High Desert Museum"
location = "Bend"
tel = "5416391182"
email = "dwhitelaw@highdesertmuseum.org"
email2 = "dana.whitelaw@gmail.com"
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """I will be jointly introducing the project with our tribal partners"""

[moderator]
first_name = "Jill"
last_name = "Stein"
title = "Principal"
institution = "Jks Consulting"
location = "Corvallis, Or"
tel = ""
email = "jks@jksconsulting.com"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Jill is the external evaluator on the project and provides a great perspective across both museums to help draw themes, questions and perspectives. She is uniquely qualified to help move the panelists through the presentation and help facilitate discussion"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Liz "
last_name = "Woody"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Museum At Warm Springs"
location = "Warm Springs, OR"
tel = ""
email = "liz@museumatwarmsprings.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Liz has co-led the project and leads the Museum at Warm Springs team"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Shelly "
last_name = "Valdez, Ph.D."
title = "Principal "
institution = "Native Pathways"
location = "New Laguna, NM"
tel = ""
email = "shilaguna@aol.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Shelly is the indigenous evaluator lead on the project/partnership"""

[pres_3]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Many museums are working on indigenizing their work, programs, exhibitions and institutions. A clear path and protocol for this work does not yet exist to move our organizations forward. Encouragingly, several institutions are working together in unique ways to find a path. In Central Oregon, two museums have a unique opportunity to use partnership, relationship building and creative professional development workshops to leverage their expertise and place-based focus. This session will provide clear insights about building relationships, moving partnerships forward between tribal and non-tribal institutions.