+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP040"
sort_id = 128
timestamp = "2/12/2020 17:37:00"
form_email = "jacey.brain@ishs.idaho.gov"
session_title = "Souvenirs and Shared Experience: Gift Shop Collaboration and Your Mission"
session_desc = """Museum stores provide unique opportunities for guests to interact with institutions and take their experience home with them. In addition to revenue, gift shops can help museums work toward education and support goals by featuring the work of artists and groups in their community or relevant to their mission. Panelists with experience working with local artists, tribal organizations, and correctional institutions on site souvenirs will lead audience discussion of triumphs and pitfalls, helping to brainstorm ideas for mission-oriented collaboration at any institution."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "business"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Gift shops and direct visitor services are often underrepresented in museum conferences. This session relates these services to institutions’ desires to build community buy-in, expand networks, and further their mission."""
session_objectives = """1. Identify opportunities for inclusion or collaboration with groups in the community an institution serves or their field of study. Discuss how a partnership can be formed that is beneficial to all parties involved. Examples include work with indigenous Tribes, local artists, and correctional institutions. Examples of items will be available for viewing. 2. Discuss how to evaluate inquiries from outside organizations, groups, or individuals, and how to approach these entities to discuss a potential partnership. What expectations should be set? What agreements should be made? Examine the options for this financial risk, including consignment, wholesale and vendor fairs. Discuss what to consider when deeming your collaboration a financial or mission-based success or failure. 3. Briefly examine the possibilities for interpretation within your institution’s retail operations, including artist information, community and staff recommendations and reviews, and tie-ins to seasonal or temporary exhibits and themes. What community resources can the store provide? How can more members of your institution’s staff be involved in the gift shop? Discussion will be aided by a handout featuring examples of local products matched to institutions, as well as a “staff recommendation” card to sketch an example store item acquired through a community partnership."""
session_engagement = """Because all institutions vary in their approach to interpretation, mission, and nature of their retail operations, this session will allow ample time for audience questions and discussion among themselves and with the panel. Presenters will use visual presentations to briefly discuss their experience before turning the discussion over to the audience. Ideas for discussion will be provided as well, including the opportunity to brainstorm an institution’s potential retail collaborators with panelists and fellow audience members."""
session_scalability = """The potential outcomes of this session can be applied to any institution with visitor services, retail, special event or outreach programs, as these forms of community buy-in and participation can be implemented on a grand or small scale, depending upon the organization's space, staff or accessibility to potential partners."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Marketing & Communications (Including Social Media), Events Planning, Development/Membership, General Audience, Visitor Services"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This session seeks to place this component of the museum experience within institutions’ desires to move forward through community buy-in, expanded networks, increased revenue, and the furthering of their mission."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "marendougherty"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Jacey"
last_name = "Brain"
title = "Visitor Services Coordinator"
institution = "Old Idaho Penitentiary"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-334-2844"
email = "jacey.brain@ishs.idaho.gov"
email2 = "jaceybrain@u.boisestate.edu"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Jacey is the Visitor Services and Event Coordinator and an Interpretive Specialist at the Old Idaho Penitentiary state historic site. After having worked in the public history field for nearly ten years, he has found new opportunities to tell the stories of the historic Idaho State Penitentiary through an expanded gift shop, new special events, and exhibits like “Faces of the Idaho State Penitentiary,” an initiative in inclusive storytelling at the site."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "April"
last_name = "Johnson"
title = "Visitor Services Specialist"
institution = "Idaho State Museum"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-780-5184"
email = "april.johnson@ishs.idaho.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """April is the Visitor Services Specialist at the Idaho State Museum. She is new to the Museum world, but she brings with her 25+ years’ experience in the private sector managing retail and real estate teams. Her people, business, consumer service, and relationship building skills give her a fresh perspective in managing customer service in a Museum setting.  In the gift shop her focus is to create a dynamic shopping experience for visitors.  In addition, become a destination for the Idaho community to find unique and Idaho centric and Idaho made gifts outside of the Museum experience."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Ruth"
last_name = "Hyde"
title = "Membership and Visitor Services Manager"
institution = "Museum of Natural and Cultural History, University of Oregon"
location = "Eugene, Oregon"
tel = "541-346-1694"
email = "rhyde@uoregon.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Ruth combines over fifteen years of sales, event management, and operations experience with her life-long love of museums to offer a unique, passionate welcome to all who visit the MNCH. Her museum role includes management of the museum store, membership program, and admissions operations, and as well as supervision of visitor experience, volunteers, students, and staff. She has an enthusiasm for inclusion, an inclination for action, and a sincere curiosity in all things museum!"""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Rachael"
last_name = "Lang"
title = "Store Manager and Buyer"
institution = "Frye Art Museum"
location = "Seattle, Washington"
tel = "208-432-8225"
email = "rlang@fryemuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Rachael is Manager and Buyer for the Store at the Frye Art Museum (Seattle, WA), which features one-of-a-kind objects and innovative items from Pacific Northwest designers and artists. Over seven years ago, Rachael transformed the Store by co-directing the remodel of the existing space, overhauling and refreshing the inventory, establishing an online retail presence, and implementing a social media plan. Rachael focuses on not only stocking local makers but collaborating with them to create innovative exhibition-related products and displays, aligning with the mission of the Museum to showcase local and global artists."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Museum stores provide unique opportunities for guests to interact with institutions and take their experience home with them. In addition to revenue, gift shops can help museums work toward education and support goals by featuring the work of artists and groups in their community or relevant to their mission. Panelists with experience working with local artists, tribal organizations, and correctional institutions on site souvenirs will lead audience discussion of triumphs and pitfalls, helping to brainstorm ideas for mission-oriented collaboration at any institution.