+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP043"
last_modified = "2020-05-13T00:38:06.000Z"
session_title = "Working Together: An Inclusive Approach to Exhibit Planning and Design"
session_desc = """How can museums target, work with, and attract a more diverse audience? This session explores how the Oregon Historical Society created their core exhibit Experience Oregon using participatory models (co-creation, collaboration) for exhibit development. This session is an open forum – a back-and-forth dialog between audience and panelists. Attendees will leave with steps and strategies on how to tell a more complete story, work with multiple groups, address conflicting perspectives, navigating roadblocks, and lesson learned."""
session_track = "Visitor Experience"
session_track_id = "recRPhS6vhktYR8ST"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session delves into the strengths and challenges of using participatory models – co-creation and collaboration – to develop an exhibit grounded in multiple perspectives."""
session_objectives = """This session is appropriate for a general audience at all professional levels. The session is an open forum – a back-and-forth dialog between audience and panelists on the exhibit-design process.  Panelists will speak briefly to introduce their role in the project before opening the floor for questions.  The objectives and learning outcomes address roadblocks (including internal stakeholders), unexpected finds, and lessons learned (including negative feedback) while developing Experience Oregon.  1.) Community engagement and management of stakeholder group.  The session will discuss the importance of community engagement and working with diverse stakeholders.  Corralling the various groups requires tenacity, patience, strategic planning, and constant follow through. Discussions will explore what worked, and what didn’t work. 2.) How to incorporate multiple perspectives and differing viewpoints.  Embracing multiple perspectives in a project can, and will, lead to conflicting viewpoints on interpretation. The audience should come away with insights on how to navigate differing viewpoints while including multiple perspectives.  3.) How to respond to, or not respond to, negative feedback. Presenting a fuller, more complete narrative of history (read – the good, the bad, and the ugly) may be challenging for visitors, stakeholders, or staff. One objective of this session is to talk about negative feedback, and some strategies to manage it. This session will provide an open, safe place to discuss the challenges of a participatory exhibit design process. Our goal is to provide concrete tools to apply this model within their institutions."""
session_engagement = """This session will be fueled by the audience’s engagement in the discussions. There will be a brief presentation by the panelists before opening the floor for questions on the content development process, challenges faced, and lessons learned. Tangible takeaways include: a scalable, collaborative model for other institutions to follow, professional development, and hard earned approaches to consider prior to beginning a similar project.   Resources needed: Computer for powerpoint presentation, projector, and screen"""
session_scalability = """The process followed to develop Experience Oregon can be scaled up or down to fit any size organization. The size of the institution will determine the size of the advisory committee/stakeholder group. Having inspired, resolute staff and/or volunteers, a committed board, and dedicated consultants will be the recipe for success."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians,Registrars, Collections Managers,Marketing & Communications (Including Social Media),Technology,Events Planning,Development and Membership Officers,General Audience"
level = "Student,Emerging Professional,Mid-Career,Senior Level,General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """For museums and other historic institutions to be forward-thinking and adaptable, recognizing the need to include previously unheard voices in their exhibitions is paramount. Developing Experience Oregon was a co-creative, collaborative undertaking with participants from OHS staff, Oregon Tribes; educators; content specialists; students; historians; community members; and multiple firms from across the country. The exhibition embraces diversity, equity, inclusivity and accessibility."""
theme_comments = """The framework of the session sets the stage for ample discussion time between panelists and attendees. The presenters will speak briefly to describe their roles in the project before opening the floor for questions from the audience. There will be a moderator to help facilitate the discussion. """
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "corygooch"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Helen B"
last_name = "Louise "
title = "Museum Director "
institution = "Oregon Historical Society "
location = "Portland, Oregon"
tel = "503-306-5274"
email = "Helen.Louise@ohs.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """I am a panelist. My role was Project Manager for OHS on the Experience Oregon exhibition"""

[moderator]
first_name = "Andrew"
last_name = "Hamilton"
title = "Content Developer "
institution = "The Design Minds "
location = "Fairfax, Virginia "
tel = "703-246-9241"
email = "andrew@thedesignminds.com"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Andrew was a key member of the Experience Oregon team. He was the point of contact for The Design Minds and helped to develop the content. He worked closely with OHS and the stakeholders/advisory committee and tracked stakeholder comments."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Darrell"
last_name = "Millner "
title = "Professor Emeritus & Adjunct Professor, Black Studies Department,"
institution = "Portland State University "
location = "Portland, Oregon "
tel = ""
email = "millnerd@pdx.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Darrell was on the stakeholder/advisory committee for the exhibit. He provided feedback on the content and ensured we were telling the most accurate story"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Michael"
last_name = "Lesperance "
title = "Principal/Content Developer "
institution = "The Design Minds "
location = "Fairfax, Virginia "
tel = "703-246-9241"
email = "Mike@thedesignminds.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Mike Lesperance is a Principal and Content Director at The Design Minds firm and the lead Project Manager for The Design Minds on this project."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Travis "
last_name = "Stewart "
title = "Artist/Interpretive Coordinator "
institution = "Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde "
location = "Grand Ronde, Oregon "
tel = ""
email = "Travis.Stewart@grandronde.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Travis was on the stakeholder/advisory committee. Travis is a member of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde, one of the 9 federally recognized tribes in Oregon. He  contributed content to the exhibit and ensured OHS was telling the most accurate story for his tribe."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Amy "
last_name = "Platt"
title = "Digital History Manager "
institution = "Oregon Historical Society "
location = "Portland, Oregon "
tel = "503-306-5271"
email = "Amy.Platt@ohs.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Amy was a key member of the content development team. Her deep knowledge of Oregon History ensured we were telling the most complete story from multiple perspectives"""
+++
How can museums target, work with, and attract a more diverse audience? This session explores how the Oregon Historical Society created their core exhibit Experience Oregon using participatory models (co-creation, collaboration) for exhibit development. This session is an open forum – a back-and-forth dialog between audience and panelists. Attendees will leave with steps and strategies on how to tell a more complete story, work with multiple groups, address conflicting perspectives, navigating roadblocks, and lesson learned.