+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP047"
last_modified = "2020-05-13T00:38:06.000Z"
session_title = "Connecting Museums to Community Disaster Planning"
session_desc = """Disaster planning is essential for museums, but competing priorities and lack of technical knowledge can pose barriers. What if your museum didn’t have to go it alone? What could it look like to join a community effort with other cultural heritage organizations? The Oregon Heritage Commission worked with the community of Cottage Grove to create a model heritage resource disaster response planning guide. Consider lessons learned and collaborative planning options within your museum’s community."""
session_track = "Collections"
session_track_id = "reclJKqDUNCEN7Jvr"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Oregon’s community heritage disaster response model is a first of its kind nationally. The model emphasizes the value of museums and heritage to the community."""
session_objectives = """The intended audience for this session is any museum professional involved in disaster resilience efforts who can report back to their organization. This could include collections managers, facility leads, or museum leaders.  The session will describe an approach to disaster planning that brings all cultural heritage groups in the community together with the city and emergency management officials to simultaneously create individual disaster plans while convening as a large group to make shared decisions and prioritize community goals that will form a community level disaster plan for cultural heritage resources, including historic buildings, districts, cemeteries, museums, historical societies, genealogical societies, and others.  The objectives of this session are to encourage museum professionals to: 1) consider the benefits of a collaborative community approach to disaster planning, 2) learn about the model Oregon Heritage created, and 3) leave inspired about the unique value museums and cultural heritage institutions have in community identity during disaster recovery.  Participants will receive an outline of Oregon’s Community Disaster Preparation Initiative for Cultural Heritage Resources that includes sample materials and agendas, sample plans for individual heritage resources, consultation guidance for local tribes, links to funding and technical resources, guidance on connecting with regional emergency management structures, and drills and checklists for maintaining community awareness of the plan over time. To prepare for this process, a “next steps for museums” checklist will also be handed out to help spur communications within their community.  Cottage Grove Museum will share concrete tips and ideas."""
session_engagement = """After background is presented, panelists, including a local government and museum representative, will share lessons learned about successes and challenges of the project. The moderator will then lead the audience through a series of questions for small-group conversations. Participants will discuss their current disaster preparedness, what organizations they have reached out to in the community, and how they can connect to other institutions for disaster planning. Followed by Q & A with panel."""
session_scalability = """The disaster resilience pilot project was conducted with a small community, but the model includes includes guidance that can be adapted to communities and museums of all sizes to fit local needs. The Q & A with the panel will also offer opportunities to consider those adaptations. """
audience = "General Audience"
level = "Student,Emerging Professional,Mid-Career,Senior Level"
other_comments = """We are open to adapting and adjusting to whatever format best serves WMA's goals. Please let us know!"""
theme_relationship = """Disaster planning is the ultimate form of forward thinking, as plans are needed to ensure a museum’s collections and knowledge are available for generations to come. This session will describe an innovative community approach to disaster planning that places museums and culture at the center of the disaster response framework and encourages shared resources, community priorities, and recognition of the important role museums can play during disaster recovery."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "kathleendaly"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Beth"
last_name = "Dehn"
title = "Oregon Heritage Commission Coordinator"
institution = "Oregon Heritage"
location = "Salem, Oregon"
tel = "503-986-0696"
email = "beth.dehn@oregon.gov"
email2 = "kuri.gill@oregon.gov"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """The Oregon Heritage Commission launched the community heritage disaster initiative in response to slow progress after years of working with individual museums and heritage organizations on disaster resiliency planning. The Commission works in the best interest of finding sustainable solutions for over 1,000 nonprofit organizations, around 200 of which are cultural heritage museums. All Commission staff has museum backgrounds. As moderator, Beth will lead the panel by explaining the impetus for the project, overall coordination and outcomes, and provide context for panelists."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Josh"
last_name = "Bruce"
title = "Program Director, Oregon Partnership for Disaster Resilience"
institution = "Institute for Policy and Research Engagement, University of Oregon"
location = "Eugene, Oregon"
tel = "541-346-7326"
email = "jdbruce@uoregon.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """The University of Oregon’s Institute for Policy and Research Engagement has provided technical expertise in this project and will speak about the process of creating a community disaster resiliency plan and lessons learned from community engagement and museum participation. Josh will provide the wide view on adapting this model to communities of all sizes."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Shauna"
last_name = "Neigh"
title = "City Planning Assistant"
institution = "City of Cottage Grove"
location = "Cottage Grove, Oregon"
tel = "541-942-3340"
email = "Mainstreet.cottagegrove@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """The City of Cottage Grove plays a unique role in coordinating closely with all of Cottage Grove’s heritage groups, as well as integrating the outcome of the disaster initiative into the City’s preservation and hazard mitigation plans. Shauna will speak to the lessons learned through community outreach and the opportunities and challenges of this model for local governments."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Becky"
last_name = "Venice"
title = "Board President"
institution = "Cottage Grove Museum"
location = "Cottage Grove, Oregon"
tel = "541-942-4269"
email = "b_bvenice@msn.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Cottage Grove Museum participated in the community heritage resource disaster initiative and will provide a small museum’s perspective on successes and challenges of participation as a museum. Becky will describe where the museum was in disaster planning prior to this project and how the project has impacted their museum’s plans moving forward."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Disaster planning is essential for museums, but competing priorities and lack of technical knowledge can pose barriers. What if your museum didn’t have to go it alone? What could it look like to join a community effort with other cultural heritage organizations? The Oregon Heritage Commission worked with the community of Cottage Grove to create a model heritage resource disaster response planning guide. Consider lessons learned and collaborative planning options within your museum’s community.