+++
ID = "75"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "suzanne.squires@ishs.idaho.gov"
session_title = "Teaching While Teching: New Tools for New Audiences "
session_desc = "Museums need to adapt and reimagine the way they disseminate information to their changing audiences. Increasingly tech savvy and younger audiences simply do not relate to traditional exhibitions. This session will explore simple ways to know and understand your audiences, as well as how to integrate interactive technologies. Additionally, we will explore unique partnerships which help maximize the visitor experience and your budget."
session_unique = "The Old Idaho Penitentiary and the Idaho State Museum have forges a relationship with the Boise State University’s College of Innovation and Design to bring history to life through technology."
session_objectives = "1. Recognize and identify the needs of your young and young at heart.\nThese audiences desire more experienced-based, technology-driven, fast paced personalization at your site. They also want to know and understand the social impact today.\n2. Demonstrate how collaboration within your community can become a benefit for all. This will include how to match the skill set of your partners with your audience’s needs. Additionally, this covers available resources like technology grants and allowing interns or the younger audience to plan and create your exhibits."
engagement = "Mostly standard session with panelist presenting, using Power Point and other audio/visual tools. We would like to include session breakouts where groups use technology to answer questions and brainstorm about tackling a new exhibit using technology."
audience = "Museum curators, educators, exhibit designers, managers, and small museum staffs who have budget and time restraints."
level = "From new employee to senior/executive staff"
other_comments = "This is not technology for technology sake. This is purposeful planning to engage an audience we might otherwise lose or become disinterested in museums long term."
theme_relationship = "This is about engaging a new generation of museum –goers. This ensures that our stories are not lost because we use methods that do not stimulate young learners."
theme_comments = "Yes we would be willing to merge with another similar session(s). Two of the presenters listed have not confirmed as of yet, but we are hopeful."

[submitter]
first_name = "Suzanne"
last_name = "Squiers"
title = "Educational Specialist"
institution = "Old Idaho Penitentiary (Idaho Historical Society)"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-488-7482"
email = "suzanne.squires@ishs.idaho.gov"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
