+++
ID = "26"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "mary@museumtrustee.org"
session_title = "Good Trustee/Bad Trustee: Recruit, Engage & Empower the Best Leaders for your Museum?s Board"
session_desc = "Building and maintaining an efficient, agile, and committed board requires strategic thought as well as long-term investment of time and energy. Learn how to find and secure strong leaders for your Board, as well as how to keep them engaged as vocal advocates for your museum's mission. Learn tips and strategies from experienced current and former museum board chairs who have played an active role in strengthening and sustaining a tenacious board. "
session_unique = "The session is geared specifically toward trustees and their unique position in securing a strong foundation for their museums."
session_objectives = "Participants will learn strategies for reviewing their current board composition and identifying their needs for new trustees, as well as how to recruit diverse and effective board members to meet those needs. \n*Participants will also be presented with proven structures for board orientation programs, which create responsible and invested leaders. These orientation programs are effective in on-boarding new trustees as well as re-energizing existing trustees. \n*Participants will discuss strategies for maintaining long term-engagement from their trustees. This conversation will include how to measure and evaluate board success. Tips for managing underperforming or difficult personalities off the board will also be shared.\n*Each of these objectives will allow attendees to walk away with a clear knowledge of the steps they will take to build and strengthen their board. Discussion time with panelists will ensure that specific challenges are addressed."
engagement = "The session will be a 60 minute discussion with 15 minutes reserved for Q&A. The session will not employ a slideshow presentation and will utilize an open structure allowing attendees to ask questions throughout as needed, with the Q&A section at the end of the presentation allowing for questions that do not naturally come up during the main conversation."
audience = "All trustees, particularly those on Executive Committees, as well as museum directors are the intended audience. The session content is relevant to anyone involved in board recruitment and board member stewardship. Development staff and board liaisons will also benefit from this session."
level = "Senior level."
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "An invested and enthusiastic board is the foundation for all types of museum engagement; a committed board is interested in and responsive to the needs of their community and audience. Ensuring that the best leaders for your museum board are in place will lead to activities that are mission driven and effective. Having the knowledge and resources to create a strong board is a vital part of making the board the foundation of a successful museum."
theme_comments = "We do not wish to merge with another session."

[submitter]
first_name = "Mary"
last_name = "Baily Wieler"
title = "President"
institution = "Museum Trustee Association"
location = "Baltimore, MD"
tel = "410-402-0954"
email = "mary@museumtrustee.org"
email2 = "hannah@museumtrustee.org"
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
