+++
ID = "64"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "sethj@centerofthewest.org"
session_title = "Managing the Digital Content Lifecycle: Write Once, Use Everywhere[1]"
session_desc = "The need to define both \"Digital Content? and \"Digital Strategy? are essential for any organization. In doing so, the Lifecycle of Digital Content becomes more transparent \" and easier to wrangle."
session_unique = "How museums can use digital projects to break down department silos and build content with multiple applications and surprising uses."
session_objectives = "Pressed with the need to expand our Internet Presence with limited funding and staffing, we decided to create a tool to aggregate content across our existing platforms. Additionally, faced with aging kiosks and wayfinding signs, we decided to also use the platform for digital signs, interactive wayfinding, and even specifically-themed kiosk designs within the galleries. In 2019, it will also serve as a repository for interactive materials to supplement our Skype in the Classroom lessons. Aside from discussing some of the specific technologies we think might be of interest to others, we also think our methodology is worth sharing. Instead of assembling one large group to try and agree on a single idea, we built the software in loosely-connected modules over several years. By creating one unifying \"front-end? system \" without forcing burdensome workflows changes on individual departments \" we found it much easier to re-use existing content, quickly link new content, and cross-link content in more places.\n*Of course on paper this can all sound a bit Zany \" but the concept itself is pretty simple. I will create a sandbox copy of the software so that participants can explore the Administrator interface of i-Scout. Although the software itself is not the main focus, I think having some hands-on tech will help stimulate the discussion."
engagement = "The TeachMeet Session Format would probably work best (although I am open to suggestions). This will allow us to briefly discuss a wide range of ideas and potential solutions. Participants are encouraged to bring a smartphone, tablet or laptop with them \" and any examples or questions they may have about emerging web technology. I will also bring some hands-on gadgets such as the mini-4K touchscreen."
audience = "Marketing, educators, curators, and museum leadership"
level = "Emerging or established"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "In two ways: The first goal of this project is to engage content ambassadors, gatekeepers, and producers into a discussion about how a \"system of systems' could be used within a single organization and even across multiple organizations. Second, to engage visitors (both physical and virtual) across multiple channels \" using a single platform.[2]"
theme_comments = "We are very flexible in terms of what the committee suggests. I can probably find another presenter or two here at the Center who would help, but due to the transition of leadership right now it's not a good time to get a firm commitment. Any suggestions for other speakers or a moderator are welcome. "

[submitter]
first_name = "Seth"
last_name = "Johnson"
title = "IT Technician, Web Developer"
institution = "Buffalo Bill Center of the West"
location = "Cody, WY"
tel = "307-250-3240"
email = "sethj@centerofthewest.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = false
is_pres = false
+++
