+++
ID = "56"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "halena@hawaii.edu"
session_title = "Indigenous Perspectives on Museum Diversity"
session_desc = "The emergence of tribal museums are representative of the diversity of Indigenous nations and cultures in North America. But what does diversity within these museums look like, especially in a time where discussions around museum diversification reign supreme? This roundtable brings together museum scholars and practitioners to discuss the practice of diversity in tribal and/or indigenous museums to reflect on the following question: Does diversity matter to tribal museums and communities'  "
session_unique = "This session is innovative because we are examining how national discussions around museum diversity might inform the daily practice and/or institutional structure of tribal and/or indigenous museums."
session_objectives = "The ultimate goal is to provide an opportunity for an inspired, engaged dialogue around museum diversity and the issues that arise within tribal and/or indigenous museum contexts. What is the current state of diversity within tribal and/or indigenous museums today? How have museum scholars and practitioners attempted to diversify museums in ways that are more equitable? What does diversity within tribal and/or indigenous museums look like in the future? \n*Specific objectives of the session will be to: \n*1.\tReview how museum diversity has been theorized and discussed over the last decade. \n*2.\tShare indigenous perspectives on museum diversity as it relates to various areas of work within tribal and/or indigenous museums. \n*3.\tConsider the state of diversity within tribal and/or indigenous museums today. \n*4.\tEncourage museum professionals who work in tribal and/or indigenous museums to consider the role of diversity within their home institution. \n*5.\tDiscuss the differences between how \"diversity\" is understood amongst Indigenous museum professionals, non-Indigenous museum professionals, and the communities that they serve. \n*6.\tOffer suggestions on how diversity can be implemented and discussed to encourage institutional change and growth. \n*The outcomes of this session will hopefully be (1) to form an energized community of museum professionals, both indigenous and non-indigenous, who are equipped with the tools necessary to address issues of diversity within their home institution, and (2) to form a network of museum professionals who want to support one another in their efforts to enact institutional change."
engagement = "?Indigenous Perspectives on Museum Diversity? would follow a standard session format. Each presenter would be allocated time to do a presentation, followed by a discussion with the audience to further explore particular concepts. One of the take aways will be strategies for increasing access to collections for diverse audiences through digital databases. One of the presenters will discuss Restoring Ancestral Connections, an online database aimed to bring together Indigenous collections from around the world.  "
audience = "Indigenous and non-Indigenous museum professionals who work in tribal museums or with extensive Indigenous collections in their institutions."
level = "All levels"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "The session engages with the theme of the 2019 annual meeting because it directly addresses the issue of diversity at the tribal level. Although diversity provides a means for larger private, state, and national museums to address various inequities, it can also foster discussions at a local level regarding the institutional changes that we want to see within our own museums as we plan for the next seven generations."
theme_comments = "No further presenters are needed for this session. We would also prefer for this session to remain closed and to not merge with another."

[submitter]
first_name = "Halena"
last_name = "Kapuni-Reynolds"
title = "Graduate Assistant, Museum Studies Graduate Certificate Program "
institution = "University of Hawaii at Manoa"
location = "Honolulu, HI "
tel = "(808) 315-5411"
email = "halena@hawaii.edu"
email2 = "halenakaprey@gmail.com"
is_mod = false
is_pres = true
+++
