+++
ID = "54"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "szwerling@aam-us.org"
session_title = "Recalculating, Recalculating...Using the Museum Assessment Program As Your Museum?s GPS on the Road to Excellence"
session_desc = "Does your museum need budget-friendly directions to improve its community engagement, address challenges with collections, strengthen its educational activities, align operations overall, or hone its governance for greater leadership potential? The Museum Assessment Program can give your museum the best route to reach your destination. Hear about the new and revised assessment options; and the benefits, experience, and results of MAP from recent participants. Fuel up to apply for this IMLS funded excellence program today."
session_unique = "While it been running for 37 years, every year MAP still engages museums that have never participated before, and/or have never heard of the program. "
session_objectives = "After coming to this session, attendees will:||* Understand MAP process and what the new/revised assessments and aspects of the process/program are||* Be motivated to apply for MAP||* Understand value of self and peer assessment as a way to engage with the larger field and strengthen the organization, so it can better serve its community and stakeholders."
engagement = "This 75-minute session features a combination of basic information about MAP (steps, options, cost, etc.) delivered by the Program Officer, followed by a conversational discussion between the PO and two recent program participants about their MAP experiences. The bulk of the session focuses on the latter. Attendees will be able to ask questions during and at the end of the session. They will leave with a handout summarizing assessments, costs, timing, and deadline."
audience = "Best suited for CEOs, Senior Staff, Board Members (people with decision-making roles at the museum)"
level = ""
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "In addition to all the MAP assessments themselves (Organizational, Community Engagement, Collections, Education, Leadership) the nature of the process creates internal and external engagement experiences for the museum. The self-assessment forces staff and board members to work together and engage deeply with museum's core mission. The site visit connects the museum with a peer, exposing them to standards and best practices. Overall MAP gives museums the opportunity to engage with the broader museum community."
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Susan"
last_name = "Zwerling"
title = "MAP Program Officer"
institution = "American Alliance of Museums"
location = "Arlington, VA"
tel = "(202) 218-7714"
email = "szwerling@aam-us.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
