+++
ID = "31"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "kfoley@sunvalleycenter.org"
session_title = "Investigating Non-traditional Museum K-12 Outreach"
session_desc = "This session offers an opportunity to hear from museum professionals about outreach models that engage K-12 students and educators in non-traditional ways. Learn the ins and outs of these programs and leave with some valuable takeaways to kick-start your own innovative and effective program."
session_unique = "Outreach programs engage students in leaning in new ways. This interdisciplinary panel will explore ways to serve your community's students and develop an audience that might not otherwise step into the museum"
session_objectives = "1. This session will offer different models for developing innovative outreach programs aimed at K?12 students. \n*2. This session will provide tools for developing outreach programs of value for educators and students. "
engagement = "A short panel discussion in which the panelists will share the specifics of their institutions' outreach models followed by a break-out into smaller groups. Attendees will have the opportunity to ask specific questions and get feedback on their institutions' outreach programs as well as tips for establishing new outreach programs. Time will be left at the end for Q&A with the panelists."
audience = "Education, Academic or Public Programming staff of small or large museums"
level = "Any"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Outreach programs engage our audiences in their classrooms or schools directly. The benefits and challenges differ from programming that we offer within our institutions?often connecting with our communities in new and exciting ways, while building new audiences. "
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Katelyn"
last_name = "Foley"
title = "Director of Education and Humanities"
institution = "Sun Valley Center for the Arts"
location = "Sun Valley, ID"
tel = 2087269491.0
email = "kfoley@sunvalleycenter.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
