+++
ID = "27"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "mparzen@museumofman.org"
session_title = "The Power of Adaptability: Raising Your ?AQ? in a Rapidly Changing Industry"
session_desc = "The ability to positively adapt to changing circumstances?one's \"Adaptability Quotient,\" or \"AQ??may prove to be one of the most important aptitudes in successfully navigating our industry going forward. This panel will: Unpack the idea of AQ; explore how it positively manifests (and gets negatively stuck) within a variety of institutional contexts and positions within museums; help attendees think about ways to improve their ability to successfully adapt, both personally and professionally. "
session_unique = "AQ is a relatively novel concept that has wide applicability to our rapidly changing industry."
session_objectives = "This session will provide the experience of two seasoned CEOs as moderators to facilitate a discussion of AQ from a variety of perspectives. Panel participants will include individuals playing a variety of roles at a variety of organizations, who will discuss strategies, opportunities and challenges in attaining a higher AQ. Attendees will:||(1) Understand the idea of AQ and why it is critical to their work within our sector;||(2) Obtain concrete examples of how AQ gets positively manifest (and negatively stuck) within a variety of institutional contexts and positions within museums; and ||(3) Leave equipped with new ways to improve their ability to adapt, both personally and professionally. "
engagement = "The moderators will facilitate a tightly organized series of brief presentations from the panel to highlight several approaches to, and perspectives about, AQ. Dana and Micah will create a take-aways handout with resources for attendees. Additionally, with 5-10-minute presentations from the panel, attendees will have the opportunity to meet in small groups to respond to prompts, strategies and conversation with each panelist by self-selecting to groups led by each panel participant."
audience = "All attendees"
level = "All levels"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Engaging with change is a constant endeavor for museum professionals. While keeping up with change?in our communities, staffing, programs, relevancy?is a constant, the ability to cope with change and uncertainty is challenging while simultaneously becoming an essential component of what it means to successfully engage in one's work and one's institution. Museum professionals must embrace adaptability at all levels of the organization if they are to navigate the complex world ahead of them.  "
theme_comments = "In addition to Dana and Micah (two CEOs/Directors) framing the concept of AQ and sharing some of their experiences, the panel will include three TBD presenters at different types of institutions (e.g. art, history, and science museums) and different roles (trustee, middle level, front line) in their institutions. Potential panelists include staff members from Oakland Museum of California, The Burke, and the Anchorage Museum. We will be thinking about who would be best, but could also use some help identifying the right presenters! "

[submitter]
first_name = "Micah"
last_name = "Parzen"
title = "CEO"
institution = "San Diego Museum of Man (Why included as co-moderator?) Micah has led SDMoM through a massive institutional change over the past several years)"
location = "San Diego, CA"
tel = "619 987 8719"
email = "mparzen@museumofman.org"
email2 = "micahparzen@museumofman.org"
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
