+++
ID = "61"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "Sonja.lunde@umfa.utah.edu"
session_title = "Make Engagement Part of Your Plan: Thinking Beyond Basic Strategic Planning"
session_desc = "For museums to effectively serve as catalysts for engagement, it's important that our strategic priorities be aligned with that aspiration. Join us to explore how museum professionals regard various engagement principles and implement them at the internal levels of our organizations. Panel presentations and group discussion will illuminate ways in which core documents and shared values of engagement can be integrated across any museum's scope of work, organizational structure, and strategic plan."
session_unique = "This session lends an opportunity to take a typically \"dry\" topic (strategic planning) and infuse it with critical thinking and discussion directly related to the \"hows and whys?\" of incorporating a sense and practice of engagement into our everyday organizational planning."
session_objectives = "1. This session will likely appeal to those in administrative positions, however is absolutely applicable and open to anyone. \n*2. I hope the session has potential to illuminate for attendees helpful, approachable ideas and solutions for developing and/or expanding their museum's strategic plan and other core documents to reflect an emphasis on ENGAGEMENT.\n*3. I hope to stoke a dynamic conversation. The session is not meant to be one-directional, so the panelists will prepare accordingly to that end. I?m unsure of the exact tactics we?ll use to catalyze critical thinking and dialogue with the audience, but we will be thinking of activities and other means to do so. I welcome suggestions. "
engagement = "Single session. Three member panel presentations (10 minutes each) will introduce the topic from various POVs, levels of experience, and types/sizes of museums. Remainder of time would be spent facilitating participatory group discussion with audience. Q&A would be stoked by panelists showing examples of core documents and sharing stories from their own planning experiences. A reference list of reading materials, planning templates, and other strategy tools will be provided as a takeaway. \n*Panelists include:\n*Sonja Lunde, Deputy Director Utah Museum of Fine Arts\n*Victoria Panella Bourns, Executive Director Utah Division of Arts and Museums\n*Jessica Farling, Director and Chief Curator Southern Utah Museum of Art"
audience = "Administrative/Managerial personnel (but open to anyone!)"
level = "Open"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Yes. Its entire focus is to highlight the conference theme in the context of strategic planning work we?re likely already doing."
theme_comments = "I?m unsure if there are any other sessions planned on core documents and/or strategic planning, but this could be piggybacked or merged with another likeminded session if the programming committee sees value in doing so. "

[submitter]
first_name = "Sonja"
last_name = "Lunde"
title = "Deputy Director"
institution = "Utah Museum of Fine Arts"
location = "Salt Lake City, UT "
tel = "801-581-3123"
email = "Sonja.lunde@umfa.utah.edu"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
