+++
ID = "60"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "ericn@nordicmuseum.org"
session_title = "Expansion, Evolution, Engagement: The Nordic Museum Saga "
session_desc = "Founded as a volunteer-led organization in 1979, the Nordic Heritage Museum evolved into one of the \"Top Five? international museum destinations for 2018. Discover how the new Nordic Museum re-designed every aspect of exhibits, building, programs, international cooperation and outreach to engage a new generation and national audience to a beloved Seattle institution. "
session_unique = "The holistic and integrated re-thinking of curation, museum design, development and exhibit design are unique in the dramatic, yet budget conscious, transformation of a regional museum. "
session_objectives = "1. Attendees will understand the process for developing an immersive visitor experience, combining site, building and visitor flow to support museum mission and exhibit storyline. \n*2. Attendees will learn how to create frameworks for collaboration, community outreach and broader engagement with museum staff, exhibit designers, architects and the museum board to transform the outcome of exhibits and visitor experience. \n*3. Attendees will learn a process to prioritize key decisions to balance collection areas, community areas and exhibit areas?each of these areas are essential to preserve essential artifacts, support diverse community gathering functions and tell multiple stories. "
engagement = "The presentations will be both explanatory and conversational. Topics including curation, exhibit design, campaign development, building and site design and international outreach will be presented in PowerPoint format.  \n*The panel will take advantage of the multiple perspectives presented to facilitate a dynamic dialog on navigating curation, loan selection, artwork integration, as well as exhibit and building design emphasis for both the essential and messy discussions underlying the finished product of a new museum. || "
audience = "Content is intended for all levels with emphasis on leadership frameworks that can support integrated design processes"
level = "All"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Challenge: The Nordic Heritage Museum was previously located in a 1908 elementary school in a residential neighborhood with a membership of aging first- and second-generation Nordic immigrants. The Museum needed to re-engage a new generation of Nordic-American and non-Nordic audiences.\n*Solution: Engagement of a new generation was increased by creating a modern immersive Nordic experience. The new museum links exhibits and architecture to create a fully immersive and re-branded environment that includes a caf?, store and great hall. Programs and museum elements were reimagined for contemporary audiences?music, travelling shows, films, food and gatherings."
theme_comments = "We have a full presenter slate. \n*We could merge if there is a double time slot "

[submitter]
first_name = "Eric"
last_name = "Nelson"
title = "Executive Director/CEO"
institution = "Nordic Museum"
location = "Seattle, WA 98107"
tel = "206-789-5707    Cell: 707-815-0459"
email = "ericn@nordicmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
