+++
ID = "47"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "aliciavs@lacma.org"
session_title = "Mindful Spaces: Creating Mindful Connections for Museum Audiences"
session_desc = "In a culture of speed and screens, museums are ideal spaces to slow down, reflect, and connect to ourselves and others. Educators from three institutions, Crocker Museum in Sacramento, University of Colorado Art Museum in Boulder, and Los Angeles County Museum of Art, will share varied approaches to successful mindfulness programs that utilize their respective collection. Participate in a mindfulness exercise, get tips for implementing programs, and brainstorm with peers in break-out groups. "
session_unique = "This session highlights a variety of mindfulness techniques for multiple audiences in front of artworks, and is designed to offer practical, hands-on advice and brainstorming.   "
session_objectives = "Interest in mindfulness has grown exponentially in the last decade. Studies have shown numerous health and societal benefits. At their core, museums provide a space for visitors to pause.  Facilitated experiences with works of art, including discussions, meditation, and creative responses, encourage visitors to carefully look at a work of art, engage in conversation, and learn about diverse viewpoints. The programs foster connections, belongingness, and compassion?capacities at the center of the human experience and vital for mental health and well-being.\n*In this session: ||-Participants will learn about successful programs that incorporate mindfulness and meditation to encourage reemphasize the art gallery experience as a opportunity for contemplation, reflection, and compassion.  ||-Participants will gain tips for planning, and implementation, including finding outside partnerships. ||-Participants will learn several mindfulness techniques.       "
engagement = "The session will begin with a mindfulness exercise, followed by panel presentations, guided break-out groups to brainstorm ways to implement mindfulness programming, time for questions, share-out and reflection, concluding with an additional mindfulness technique. The break-out groups will be facilitated by the presenters and will include resource guides. Participants will get specific tips on starting new programs, or incorporating mindfulness into existing programming, even if they do not have personal experience with mindfulness or meditation."
audience = "Educators, Visitor-engagement staff, Community-oriented staff"
level = "All levels"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Programming is designed to engage existing audiences, and foster new audiences through mindfulness based activities in front of works of art. In addition, the programs address the societal need to unplug from a fast-paced and overwhelming world by providing spaces to slow down, and have meaningful interactions with themselves, fellow participants and works of art.   "
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Alicia"
last_name = "Vogl Saenz"
title = "Senior Education Coordinator"
institution = "Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA)"
location = "Los Angeles, CA "
tel = "323*857-6504"
email = "aliciavs@lacma.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
