+++
ID = "20"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "nicoleinghilterra@ishs.idaho.gov"
session_title = "Conservation DIY(ish)"
session_desc = "Professional conservators are essential to collections care, but facing the realities of limited budgets and needy artifacts, when can (or should) museum staff provide a little DIY? Throughout the rebuilding of the Idaho State Museum, collaborative partnerships between collections staff and professional conservators opened up new possibilities for both collections stewardship and professional engagement. Join a discussion about the line between \"DIY\"DIYand \"do not touch? to better care for the artifacts that need us! "
session_unique = "As a case study, ISM's partnerships provide models for collaborative practices of engagement between collections staff and conservators."
session_objectives = "Our primary objective is to encourage collections personnel to form close partnerships with conservators to better care for stewarded artifacts. Additionally, we would like to present strategies that helped our team succeed in maximizing both budgets and staff skills. While this is by no means a suggestion that museums don?t need professional conservators, it was surprising to us just how much we could accomplish with the encouragement and guidance of experts. Like many museums, the ISM only had a particular amount of money set aside for conservation. Our needs exceeded that amount exponentially. After talking to local conservators, the idea that we could in fact, do some of this work in-house was surprising. The bulk of literature suggests a far more hands off approach and instead calls for professional conservation in most cases when damage is present. Working with Diana and Cheri brought to light just how much we could do, which better allowed us to prioritize those artifacts or injuries we couldn?t tackle independently. This model may be already present in other institutions, or could be latent in communities with similar circumstances. I would hope that attendees would leave the discussion ready to find opportunities to engage these relationships and skills back home resulting in happier, healthier, artifacts all around! "
engagement = "This will be a conversation guided by Jody Ochoa. The session would begin with a brief introduction from Jody describing the framework for the collections department during the ISM remodel. Sarah and I would then present short summaries of the restoration of the Owyhee Dome and the Textiles Digitization Initiative, bringing in Diana with her contributions and guidance. After moderator facilitated discussion, we would then incorporate Q&A dialogue with the audience."
audience = "Small and medium sized museum collections staff, exhibit designers, and conservators."
level = "All levels but possible special interest to EMPs."
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "These case studies represent the engagement of both staff members and the community of professionals surrounding the ISM. Instead of serving as a way to bypass the need for professional conservators, engaging them as mentors and community members provides an opportunity to maximize our outreach and collections stewardship. "
theme_comments = "Totally willing to merge with another session or include other presenters!"

[submitter]
first_name = "Nicole"
last_name = "Inghilterra"
title = "Registrar"
institution = "Idaho State Museum"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "(208) 488-7491"
email = "nicoleinghilterra@ishs.idaho.gov"
email2 = "nicolelinghilterra@gmail.com"
is_mod = false
is_pres = true
+++
