+++
ID = "41"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "dkersting@latah.id.us"
session_title = "Small But Mighty: Powerful Fundraising Messages for Small Museums"
session_desc = "The folks who staff or volunteer in small museums throughout our region have a true passion for their work and the institutions they run. That passion, however, can be difficult to articulate when it comes to soliciting donations, particularly when writing appeals is just one of many tasks on our to-do list. A panel of small museum representatives will share their tips and tricks for crafting compelling messages that convey an organization's goals and needs.   "
session_unique = "Many fundraising sessions are presented by individuals from museums with entire development departments, which can feel quite alien to folks from small institutions. "
session_objectives = "Attendees will?\n*1. Learn how to articulate their passion for the work of the museum in clear and accessible language. The why of our work is so often overlooked, in favor of messages about how many artifacts were preserved or the number of school children that visited. \n*2. Be asked to consider the relationship between the institution and the community. A museum rarely exists in isolation with the rest of the town (and if it does, that is a sign that there is work to be done). By illustrating how a museum makes the entire community a better place to live and work, donors can better understand the impact of their gift. \n*3. Take away tips for specific language that has worked (and perhaps some that has not).  "
engagement = "Each of the three presenters will spend 10 to 15 minutes sharing their perspectives on the topic. Then the participants will be asked to split into smaller groups and will have 10 minutes to rework a handful of underwhelming sentences from an appeal letter. Groups will present their improved solicitations, and the final minutes will be left for general Q&A.  "
audience = "Staff and volunteers at small museums who are responsible for communicating with donors."
level = "Any"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "We cannot expect donors to engage with museums, museums must take the initiative to engage with their supporters. A well-crafted message is key to grabbing attention and building trust. Even when we are short on time in small museums, we must remember that without our donors, we could not pursue the rest of our work, and so devoting time to development is crucial. "
theme_comments = "I most definitely need help identifying presenters!"

[submitter]
first_name = "Dulce"
last_name = "Kersting-Lark"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Latah County Historical Society"
location = "Moscow, Idaho"
tel = "208.882.1004"
email = "dkersting@latah.id.us"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
