+++
ID = "87"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "lhedley@barona-nsn.gov"
session_title = "Museum Stores—where the relationship between art and commerce thrives."
session_desc = "Museum stores are unique retail spaces that should educate visitors, build the museum’s brand, and work to highlight (sometimes even influence) the aspects of art the institution views as important.  How healthy is the relationship between art and commerce in your store?  Come and find out what you can do to strengthen your store."
session_unique = "Museums stores are carefully curated as are exhibitions, but their educational impact is often overlooked. We share our insights that may increase sales and visitors’ educational experiences."
session_objectives = "1.     Evaluate your own\n  museum’s store—based on current merchandise, what are your educational\n  messages and how are you influencing your visitors?  Think of the store as the final portion of\n  the exhibition—what are the main points to address?  Learn how to make subtle changes for\n  maximum effect.\n  2.     What is the\n  knowledge level of your store personnel? \n  Are they able to talk about how the merchandise is relevant?  Have your collaborated with the curatorial\n  team?  Can staff engage your visitors\n  and do they aim for 100% sales, build the museum brand and develop long-term\n  relationships with their visitors? \n  Learn how to train store staff to reach their fullest potential.\n  \n Ask questions—need help with something in your\nstore?  Ask your colleagues for advice.  Take home some revenue-generating information."
engagement = ""
audience = "Store Managers / buyers, visitor services staff"
level = "Emerging professionals,"
other_comments = "Curatorial & Education Departments, too"
theme_relationship = "It is important for museums to engage with their visitors on as many levels as possible. Museum stores have a tremendous impact on the visitor experience. We encourage participants to take another look at their stores and see how they can improve interdepartmental collaboration, increase staff knowledge, and perhaps even increase revenue."
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Laurie"
last_name = "Egan-Hedley"
title = "Director/Curator"
institution = "Barona Cultural Center & Museum"
location = "Lakeside, CA"
tel = "619-443-7003"
email = "lhedley@barona-nsn.gov"
email2 = ""
is_mod = ""
is_pres = true
+++
