+++
ID = "10"
timestamp = "2018-12-11T22:06:51.226Z"
form_email = "laura-fry@utulsa.edu"
session_title = "Stronger Together: Creating Exhibitions Through Museum Partnerships"
session_desc = "\"Our museum is way overstaffed!\" said no museum professional ever. Many museums operate with a tight budget and lean staff relative to their size. With limited resources, how can cultural institutions produce meaningful exhibitions on a large scale? \n*Museum partnerships offer an opportunities to create more robust, impactful exhibitions than a single institution can achieve alone. This session explores a recent exhibition partnership, offers lessons learned, and invites participants to brainstorm a future partnership opportunity for their museum."
session_unique = "As co-curators from two museums working together on an exhibition, we largely created a process from scratch. This session shares a distinct model of a co-produced exhibition partnership.|| "
session_objectives = "* Why form a museum partnership in the first place? Presenters will discuss some of the potential benefits of creating an exhibition through a partnership between two or more museums: sharing collections, sharing staff knowledge, increasing overall staff capacity, increasing creative potential, securing venues for a traveling exhibition, among others.||* By exploring proven examples of a museum exhibition partnership, this session will provide participants with templates for initiating and sustaining museum partnerships through complex projects. This session will describe the initial exhibition idea, partner contracts and budgets, content brainstorming, interpretation, and marketing?and the regular communication required to meet project targets on schedule. By using the exhibition \"Albert Bierstadt: Witness to a Changing West? as a case study, this session will also describe both successes and possible pitfalls of planning an exhibition between two institutions. ||* Ultimately, this session will demonstrate one of many benefits of traveling and getting to know museum colleagues! Building relationships through personal interactions at museum conferences, symposia, and other events helps set up museum partnerships for success.  In addition to hearing from presenters, this session will invite attendees to take about 5-10 minutes in small groups to discuss their ideas, large and small, for a potential exhibition partnership.|| "
engagement = "First, presenters will briefly present case studies and lessons learned from recent museum exhibition partnerships (30-40 mins). Second, attendees will be invited to break into groups of 3-4 people to discuss their ideas for museum exhibition partnerships (10 mins). Third, attendees will have a chance to share insights from their group discussions and engage in a dialogue with presenters about museum partnership projects (25 mins)."
audience = "Curators, educators, interpreters, and content creators"
level = "Emerging, mid-level, and senior museum professionals"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = " In a broad sense, this session will show how museums can be engaged with each other for mutual benefit."
theme_comments = "For now, this session has only two presenters, the co-curators for \"Albert Bierstadt: Witness to a Changing West? from the Buffalo Bill Center of the West and Gilcrease Museum. We absolutely would like to add presenters and perhaps explore one or two additional museum exhibition partnership case studies. We?d be happy to merge with another session if you find a good fit. Thank you to the Program Committee for considering our proposal!"

[submitter]
first_name = "Laura"
last_name = "Fry"
title = "Senior Curator & Curator of American Art"
institution = "Gilcrease Museum"
location = "Tulsa, OK 74127"
tel = "918-596-2745"
email = "laura-fry@utulsa.edu"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
