+++
ID = "13"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "arowe@sunnylands.org"
session_title = "Speed Networking"
session_desc = "Speed networking?is a structured format specifically designed to accelerate contacts in timed intervals signaled with a whistle. This event begins with a brief overview of very specific instructions on how the program works. Chairs are pre-setup across from each other in pairs enabling participants to move from chair to chair in a pre-determined sequence whereby information and business card exchange will occur. These are fun, fast-paced, timed intervals concluding with everyone meeting each other briefly. At the conclusion, mingling will continue.||*Speed Networking has occurred the past three years at the WMA conference as a stand-alone, free, event aligned with the opening evening festivities."
session_unique = "There is nothing else like this during the conference. This program provides structured one on one introductions in a fun, relaxed, jovial environment."
session_objectives = "This program provides an efficient, expedient, fun (a WMA core value) data exchange event for attendees to kick off the conference. We create a uniquely \"safe\" and fun environment for everyone who enters the space with warm welcomes and humor. This works well for all personality types ranging from shy to outgoing.\n*POTENTIAL OUTCOMES: Sitting across from many new faces exchanging cards in a humorous, light-hearted format accelerates the ice-breaking process enabling deeper networking potential to occur throughout the subsequent days of the conference."
engagement = "This is a format that is practiced in other settings including corporate conferences. Participants have very clear instructions of where and how to start and how to move through the room with every blow of the referee's whistle. With clear instructions, participants will have no social obligation accept to follow the directions."
audience = "All"
level = "All"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Face to face engagement will inspire new ideas, new relationships, new contacts, and/or new friends. Specific stories of what participants hope to achieve in the short and long term and what they need to get there will inspire some interesting conversations and potential connections."
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Anne"
last_name = "Rowe"
title = "Director of Collections and Exhibitions"
institution = "Sunnylands"
location = "Rancho Mirage, CA"
tel = 7607021943.0
email = "arowe@sunnylands.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
