+++
ID = "73"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "terra@boiseartmuseum.org"
session_title = "Seeking Advice: Rethinking Community Advisory Committees"
session_desc = "Advisory committees can provide valuable input and connections to new audiences, partnerships, and creative collaborations. This session presents practical advice for effectively utilizing community advisory committees for both single projects and on-going advancement of the institutional mission. From selecting diverse individuals to encouraging sustained participation, panelists will share the nuts and bolts of forming, engaging, and maintaining a healthy and helpful advisory group."
session_unique = "Many museums already utilize advisory committees, but this panel will focus on ways in which those groups can be reimagined to support more creative leadership practices."
session_objectives = "The objectives of this panel are to 1) acknowledge the importance of advisory committees in effectively engaging with our communities, 2) provide practical steps for forming and utilizing an advisory group, and 3) share specific engagement strategies that support both short- and long-term goals and make a significant impact on the institution’s connection to the community. Panelists will also discuss ways in which their institutions create accountability and participation with volunteer advisory members."
engagement = "This is a single session panel comprised of three panelists with different approaches to community advisory groups. Panelists with present what motivated the initial development of the community advisory committee, the steps taken to recruit/invite members, the requirements of participation on the committee, and examples of the benefits and/or challenges of the group. Panelists and session attendees will then divide into groups and discuss specific, practical questions in a small-group format."
audience = "Directors, Curators, Educators, Community Engagement Specialists"
level = "Senior level professionals"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Engaging community members in conversations about the goals of a project or the institutional mission is essential to staying relevant and increasing the reach of the organization. In addition, museum professionals can reflect on the information shared in these advisory sessions about issues affecting the community and the community’s perception of the role the institution plays in addressing those needs."
theme_comments = "My experience with advisory committees is limited to single project groups. I would appreciate help in finding three presenters to represent a different types of advisory groups – newly formed, on-going, and/or restructured. I also plan to invite a member of a past advisory group. I am open to this panel being merged with another."

[submitter]
first_name = "Terra"
last_name = "Feast"
title = "Curator of Education"
institution = "Boise Art Museum"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-345-8330, ext. 118"
email = "terra@boiseartmuseum.org"
email2 = "terra.feast@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
