+++
ID = "36"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "cgilbert@sunvalleycenter.org"
session_title = "Beyond the Museum Walls ? Social Engagement through Community Collaboration"
session_desc = "Collaborative partnerships allow museums to reimagine themselves as spaces that are responsive and relevant to their communities. Collaborations with partners with different areas of expertise deepen the impact of our work and engage new and nontraditional audiences. \n*Hear from museum professionals about the nature of collaborative partnerships they have pursued and how these collaborations root their institutions in their diverse communities, triggering new audiences to connect to the museum through shared dialogue and experience.|| "
session_unique = "Museums hope to serve communities with relevant programs, deepening experiences and growing audience. This session examines collaborations with partner organizations that achieve those goals. "
session_objectives = "1. The session will provide attendees with tools for building collaborative partnerships within their communities.\n*2. The session will provide models for developing programs around issues of relevance to their communities, including social, political and environmental topics.\n*3. The session will provide attendees with ideas for building and retaining non-traditional museum audiences."
engagement = "Each presenter will spend 10-15 minutes sharing specifics regarding the challenges, benefits and impacts of community collaborations and programming with partners at their institutions. Participants will then break into smaller groups for a 10-15 minute workshop on how the institutions in their group could develop collaborative programs addressing a sample topic or theme within their community. Groups will present the ideas they developed; remaining time will be devoted to Q&A. "
audience = "Educational, public programming and curatorial staff at small and large museums"
level = "Any"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "This session explores the ways collaborative community partnerships can enhance community engagement for cultural institutions. Collaborative programs offer museums opportunities for greater relevance and relatability within their communities. Collaborating not only engages museum staff with other ideas and professional practices, but also engages a wider section of our community by providing a space for dialogue on contemporary social, political and environmental issues and ideas of importance. "
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Courtney"
last_name = "Gilbert"
title = "Curator of Visual Arts"
institution = "Sun Valley Center for the Arts"
location = "Sun Valley, Idaho"
tel = "208-726-9491"
email = "cgilbert@sunvalleycenter.org"
email2 = "courtgilb@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
