+++
ID = "63"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "henleyco@earthlink.net"
session_title = "De-colonizing History in a Colony and in a Nation"
session_desc = "Guam is effectively still a colony of the United States. We explore how three recent exhibits there addressed the perspective of Guam's indigenous people, the CHamorus. Project success was impacted by who controlled the project (colonizers vs. colonized) and by the level of CHamoru involvement: whether planning, reviewing, or creating remedial programs, after the fact. These experiences are compared with those for a recent Cherokee Nation museum. Schedule and budget implications are also addressed."
session_unique = "We explore the issue from the fairly \"raw\" perspective of indigenous people who were very recently colonized. One presenter's father was alive when Americans arrived. "
session_objectives = "1) To convey the critical need for full collaboration with indigenous people on indigenous exhibitions. \n*OUTCOME: \n*Each audience member should be enthusiastic about involving indigenous groups in the development process. They will learn concrete steps by which to solicit a wide range of individuals to serve as collaborators or consultants. \n*2) To counter the most common arguments against collaboration (it will take too long; cost too much) \n*OUTCOME: \n*Attendees will assign budget and schedule allocations by the same criteria they would for a museum about their own people \" for instance a museum about white men, African-American women, Christians, the people of Idaho, the Western Museums Association. Planning and developing a story about any group of people requires exploration of multiple perspectives and respect for the time of consultants (i.e. paid compensation commensurate with that for outside academic experts). Attendees will appreciate that when the project belongs to a group, the group will make it happen, on time and budget. Mutual \"ownership\" is the key.\n*3) To offer techniques to ease collaboration and make it as efficient and effective as possible. \n*OUTCOME:\n*Attendees will use food and hospitality as part of the collaborative process, and respect input received (either incorporating suggestions or reaching mutually agreeable compromises). They will appreciate that like all consultants, cultural consultants tend to be sympathetic to the person or organization that is paying them. For completely candid collaboration, payments should come directly from an indigenous organization, not from an outside group that may have its own agenda. "
engagement = "40 minute presentation of each project's process, failures and successes, and lessons learned. \n*15 minutes for the audience to break into five or more self-identified groups (by interest, ethnicity, region, affiliation, etc?still TBD) and then discuss the form of involvement they would prefer for a museum about them, that was being created by others.\n*10 minutes to share their criteria with the rest of the group.\n*10 minutes for further discussion / Q & A."
audience = "Administrators, museum and exhibit planners, architects, designers, writers, and curators. "
level = "All levels"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Yes, it calls for engagement of indigenous people in the planning and development of projects that relate to them. "
theme_comments = "Given the cost of travel from Guam, any potential assistance would be welcome. If participants were to collaborate via conference call or Go-To-Meeting format, a later time slot would be appreciated (6 hr time difference for Guam). Open to suggestions or merging options!"

[submitter]
first_name = "Lyn"
last_name = "Henley"
title = "President"
institution = "Henley Company"
location = "Topanga, CA"
tel = "310-455-4262"
email = "henleyco@earthlink.net"
email2 = "lyn@henleycompany.com"
is_mod = false
is_pres = true
+++
