+++
ID = "17"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "jenniferortiz@utah.gov"
session_title = "Scaling work for your museum: a hands on session OR Scaling Best Practices to fit your Museum"
session_desc = "Have you ever come across a great idea only to wonder how you can make it work for your museum? Scaling or adapting best practices and innovative ideas to fit your organization is critical to your success. Come hear examples of scaling projects and ideas in collections, fundraising & administrative practices, and digital projects while testing your hand at workshopping scaling ideas for your museum. ||\t"
session_unique = "We hear a lot of wonderful case studies and examples of great projects at WMA but rarely conversations around how to make a project fit your organization where it is at with current staff and resources. This is a nice bridge to larger case study sessions."
session_objectives = "1. To learn as a group about the theory of scalability \n*2. To apply the theory of scalability to a potential project for your museum \n*3. Provide attendees with an understanding of how to scale their work for their circumstances "
engagement = "The intended session format will be a combination of a traditional three speaker panel with a majority of the time spent on breaking out into small groups to work through scalability worksheets with provided sample examples. Each of the presenters will present on their area of expertise (Collections, Admin/fundraising, Digital Projects) followed by a hands on session for attendees. Additional resources will be sent to WMA admin following the conference for attendees to access via the website. "
audience = "All"
level = "All"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = ""
theme_comments = "If there are ideas from the PC, we?d love to hear them. This session is fairly set in format and is based off of a session done at the 2018 AASLH conference in Kansas City. The presenters and their focus has been modified to be more applicable to WMA's audience."

[submitter]
first_name = "Jennifer"
last_name = "Ortiz"
title = "Museum Services Manager"
institution = "Utah Division of Arts & Museums"
location = "Salt Lake City, UT "
tel = "(801) 245-7288"
email = "jenniferortiz@utah.gov"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
