+++
ID = "39"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "kfitzpatrick@dlrgroup.com"
session_title = "?If You Build it, Will They Come??"
session_desc = "Undertaking major changes to programming can be a challenging exercise for museums. The Chandler Museum, Nora Eccles Harrison Museum of Art, and Heard Museum have each endeavored to move beyond the walls of their building and find ways to engage with new audiences. Whether through renovation or reorganization, you will learn the importance of early and continued engagement with stakeholders and how their input can help guide programming in a positive and unexpected way.  "
session_unique = "We?ll look at how to position museums for future expansion, the strategic role of non-traditional programming, and extending user experiences beyond the building's four walls."
session_objectives = "1. Understand the role stakeholder engagement plays in programming, and present strategies for continuing to listen and engage long after the ribbon has been cut.\n*2. Identify and explore the hidden potential of non-traditional museum assets. For example, programming outdoor spaces in creative ways, the use of light technology as a means for deepening visitor engagement.   \n*3. Evaluate whether strategies were successful, or how they could have been improved. Utilize visitor surveys to demonstrate how data can inform future decision making and programming."
engagement = "Moderator introduces the topic, guides the conversation with three panel speakers. Powerpoint will be used to engage the audience. Moderator controlled Q&A interspersed throughout. Engagement of the audience is vital to the success of this discussion."
audience = " CEOs/Directors, security, operations, event managers, collections staff, curators, educators, architects, visitor services, retail and site managers."
level = "Entry to Senior"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "All three projects relied heavily on stakeholder and community engagement during the predesign phase. Significant time was spent learning why stakeholders didn?t visit the museum, which led to follow-up discussions on how programming and strategic relationships could help improve attendance.  This effort was made in the design phase to engage new audiences, and presenters will share visitor feedback and data to illustrate the successful outcome of engaging new audiences, as well as the challenges. "
theme_comments = "We are happy to have others join our group or retool our submission to fit the needs of the theme for the conference."

[submitter]
first_name = "Kathleen"
last_name = "Fitzpatrick"
title = "Senior Associate"
institution = "DLR Group"
location = "Phoenix AZ"
tel = "602-507-6804"
email = "kfitzpatrick@dlrgroup.com"
email2 = ""
is_mod = false
is_pres = true
+++
