+++
ID = "52"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "lhedley@barona-nsn.gov"
session_title = "Indigenizing Museums Because Decolonization Isn?t Enough"
session_desc = "Decolonization is so much more than managing a collection of cultural material in a sensitive way.  After all, these items are perishable.  What can last forever are the philosophies and beliefs that sustain the Indigenous People.  Indigenization of museums includes recognizing the validity of indigenous worldviews, knowledge and perspectives, identifying opportunities for indigeneity to be expressed, and incorporating indigenous ways of knowing and doing.  Hear from indigenized museums and the good work they are doing.    "
session_unique = "Decolonization was discussed at WMA for the last 3 years, and not from the Native persepective.  It's time to go beyond decolonization; Indigenize!"
session_objectives = "1. Learn the difference between decolonization and indigenization.  What can you do at your museum to indigenize?  Participants will understand where decolonization falls short and how to look at the bigger picture.\n*2. Hear from the Native perspective why indigenization is so important.  Remove your Western lens and understand history from the Native Perspective.\n*3. Discuss cutting-edge exhibition plans from Barona Museum.  Participants may be influenced to apply some of these ideas at home."
engagement = "Conversation is important.  Tribal Members and Tribal Museum reps share their views on decolonization and indigenization."
audience = "All interested in Native themes, decolonization, and next steps"
level = "all"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Engage in a new discourse.  How can museums use their preservation techniques on intangible cultural philosophies'  Think outside of the box.  Beyond \"us' versus \"them? and more on \"we.\"  "
theme_comments = "Yes, am looking for museums that have embraced indigenization, beyond decolonization.  Have some requests to tribal museums but waiting to hear back.  Am happy to merge."

[submitter]
first_name = "Laurie"
last_name = "Egan-Hedley"
title = "Director/Curator"
institution = "Barona Cultural Center & Museum"
location = "Lakeside, CA"
tel = "619-443-7003"
email = "lhedley@barona-nsn.gov"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
