+++
ID = "48"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "heatherv@highdesertmuseum.org"
session_title = "Board Engagement in Fundraising"
session_desc = "Boards are responsible for the fiscal health of the nonprofit organizations they serve.  Not only must they give, but it is essential that they take part in fund development.  Many volunteers are uncomfortable in this role.  This session will equip staff with tools to train Board members about the fundraising cycle and how they can be involved in different phases based on their comfort levels.  It will include tips on face to face solicitations."
session_unique = "Based on questions posed at the Fund Development Plan session in 2018, it became apparent that this topic is of great interest. "
session_objectives = "Objectives:||* To clearly describe the fundraising cycle, the power of peer to peer fundraising, and facts about philanthropy today||* To convey the essential criteria in identifying the best prospects||* To provide training tools for museum staff to share with Boards \n*Outcomes:||* To help staff and Board members overcome fears and stigmas associated with fundraising||* To generate prospect lists to with ranking systems, action items and timelines||* To create systems of accountability"
engagement = "This would be a standard session led by museum fundraisers and Board members.  It would include individual and small group exercises.\n*Take-aways would include worksheets/activities and educational resources such as suggested readings."
audience = "Executive Directors, fundraising staff and Board members.  This may be especially useful for smaller organizations in which staff are required to wear many hats."
level = "Emerging to Senior"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Because this session will involve panelists from multiple institutions, attendees will see how different Museums approach this work and how they can utilize this expertise to enhance their current fundraising practices.\n*In addition, by deepening the engagement of Board members in fundraising it will broaden museum communities. "
theme_comments = "If this topic is of interest to the Programs Committee, I would greatly appreciate referrals for other speakers.  I?d certainly be willing to merge with another session if similar proposals exist."

[submitter]
first_name = "Heather"
last_name = "Vihstadt"
title = "Director of Development"
institution = "High Desert Museum"
location = "Bend, OR"
tel = "541-323-3314 or 541-788-8567"
email = "heatherv@highdesertmuseum.org"
email2 = "hvihstadt@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
