+++
ID = "15"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "alice@aparman.com"
session_title = "Museum Work as a Calling"
session_desc = "In this \"Westinar\" locating expertise in everyone in the room, facilitated discussion invites exploration into what has called us to museums. What kindled our passion?childhood experiences or volunteering? How to keep going through ups and downs, and decisions to leave or stay?  Let's share our hopes and dreams of personal futures. The range of generations may provide insights into the differences of earlier informal versus current formal modes of entry into the field. (74 words)"
session_unique = "Through active listening, participants will gain insight into intergenerational commonalities and differences, and how people at different career stages can serve and advance one another. (25 words)"
session_objectives = "? Tap the expertise in the room. Rather than a few experts sharing their knowledge in specific fields, as in a panel format, everyone in the Westinar is an expert on their own experience. Through thought-provoking questions and a proven facilitation method of active listening and sharing, we expect participants will come away with new ways of thinking about their own working lives and careers.    ||\" Focus on the passion that motivates people in their work. Participants will reflect upon and share what inspired them to enter the field, and how that passion is holding up in practice. Through discussion, ideas will emerge for finding one's taproot, and how to refresh the wellspring of inspiration during a dry spell. ||\" Acknowledge the varied perspectives of people at different life and career stages. Discussion will center around triads and foursomes whose composition will shift during the session. Some questions will be addressed among age/career stage peers, others among people of different ages and stages. An intended outcome is a recognition by everyone of the importance of mentoring, inclusion, and diversity in museum work. A second possible outcome is insights into how a project can be genuinely collaborative.  (193 words)  "
engagement = "Participants will sit in a circle. In changeable triads and foursomes, they'll address a series of questions using these rules: Take turns talking and listening (2 minutes each way); everything said will be held in confidence. At some points we'll reform as a larger group, sharing perspectives on a voluntary basis. We'll also go around the circle at times, with the understanding that it's fine to pass. (67 words)"
audience = "This session is for all comers, at any life/career stage. "
level = ""
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "We expect that our session will engage participants in a useful and memorable series of reflections on their own and others' experiences in museum work, and will model a format for facilitating discussion that may prove helpful when they return to their own institutions.  (45 words)"
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Alice"
last_name = "Parman"
title = "Interpretive Planner"
institution = "Independent"
location = "Eugene, Oregon "
tel = "541-342-3464"
email = "alice@aparman.com"
email2 = "parman.alice@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
