+++
ID = "24"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "heatherv@highdesertmuseum.org"
session_title = "Planned Giving Opportunities with the Upcoming Transfer of Wealth"
session_desc = "Studies show that $9 trillion in assets will be passed in the U.S. from Baby Boomers to Gen X and millennials by 2027.  It is imperative that fundraisers plan thoughtfully for this transfer of wealth because great opportunity exists to secure planned gifts. While many nonprofits focus on immediate funding needs, Museums are in a unique position, responsible for long-term institutional preservation and collections care.  It is not only prudent, but necessary to develop sustainable revenue.  "
session_unique = "This data is from a report by the Chronicle of Philanthropy.  If nonprofits secure just 5% of this wealth it will have remarkable impact."
session_objectives = "Objectives:||* To inform Museum leaders about the transfer of wealth that will occur in the next decade and how those assets are currently held||* To describe various types of planned gifts and the potential tax benefits to both donors and their heirs||* To share simple strategies to implement a planned giving program\n*Outcomes:||* Attendees will see value in preparing for and investing in long-term fundraising strategies||* Participants will have an increased understanding of planned giving||* Leaders will be equipped with practical tools that will help them create sustainable revenue"
engagement = "This would be a panel with an estate planner to describe gift types and tax benefits, a staff person from the Idaho Community Foundation to discuss endowment, and a colleague (potentially from the World Center for Birds of Prey) with a successful planned giving program to share knowledge and an inspirational story.  I would offer strategies on identifying prospects, marketing and stewardship.\n*Takeaways would include definitions, sample policies/materials, suggested readings and opportunities for professional development."
audience = "Museum executives, fundraisers and board members.  It may be particularly beneficial for smaller organizations that don?t have planned giving programs."
level = "Senior and supportive staff"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "This panel will engage experts across sectors, which can further mission fulfillment in museums.  \n*And because the best prospects for planned gifts are not necessarily major donors, it will encourage fundraisers to more deeply engage long-time members who may not otherwise receive the level of attention they deserve.  It will help institutions build stronger relationships that can span generations.  This is important because by 2067, the transfer of wealth is expected to be $97 trillion."
theme_comments = "I would appreciate recommendations for co-presenters.  If my suggested approach is approved by the Programs Committee, I will gladly make calls to the institutions I referenced above."

[submitter]
first_name = "Heather"
last_name = "Vihstadt, MNM, CFRE"
title = "Director of Development"
institution = "High Desert Museum"
location = "Bend, OR"
tel = "541-788-8567 (c)"
email = "heatherv@highdesertmuseum.org"
email2 = "hvihstadt@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
