+++
ID = "77"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "amber.beierle@ishs.idaho.gov"
session_title = "We’re Engaged: Turning museum friends with benefits into museum partnerships"
session_desc = "This session will focus on fostering different kinds of community and inter-agency partnerships to engage existing audiences and cultivate new ones. Additionally, panelists will discuss the process of developing and retaining partner relationships of all kinds. Relationship building can be tough, but it is also an integral part of lasting partnerships. Learn how different background and different missions can come together for mutually beneficial outcomes!"
session_unique = "Treating partnerships in the context of relationship-building creates a shared, vested interest in a program’s success. This session will outline how to build those relationships."
session_objectives = "1.        Identify how successful partnerships begin. \nOne panelist will describe a \n2.        Demonstrate how to anticipate and plan for hiccups and roadblocks.\n3.        Outline how to make the partnership last.\n"
engagement = "This would be a standard session with panelists discussing their partnerships. Since each deals with a different kind of relationship we would do a breakout time. Asking the audience to choose which partnership (relationship) they want to “commit” too. They would then ask questions, outline, strategize with that panelist in particular. The idea being those like-minded directions can learn and grow with each other to maximize their museums potential."
audience = "Applicable mostly to all staff, volunteers and boards."
level = "All"
other_comments = "An essential part of lasting partnerships is understanding they can form anywhere with anyone."
theme_relationship = "The session is all about museums engaging with our community to benefit common and/or newly developed missions and purposes. Relationship building within these partnerships requires a commitment to the each other and engaging each other for a shared good. "
theme_comments = "This could easily be a stand-alone session or merged with a similar session(s). If merged there might be a need to pare down committed panelists. Always open to making it the strongest session possible"

[submitter]
first_name = "Amber "
last_name = "Beierle"
title = "Historic Sits Administrator"
institution = "Old Idaho Penitentiary (Idaho State Historical Society)"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-488-7480"
email = "amber.beierle@ishs.idaho.gov"
email2 = "amber.beierle@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = ""
+++
