+++
ID = "68"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "britney@boiseartmuseum.org"
session_title = "Museums and Mindfulness"
session_desc = "This session is an exploration of mindfulness and its impact on both museum staff and the opportunities for mindfulness in public programming. Quieting the mind, letting go of mental clutter, regaining focus all open the door to seeing and experiencing museums in new ways. Panelists will share ideas about self-reflection, organizational culture change/growth, and replicable examples of mindfulness-centered programs for museum audiences and museum staff."
session_unique = "This session focuses on encouraging self-reflective practices that reinforce the intentionality of the important work museum professionals do."
session_objectives = "1. To present opportunities for the utilization of mindfulness exercises at the individual, museum staff level.\n2. To discuss a variety of ways in which museums do engage, or could engage museum visitors through mindfulness-centered programs."
engagement = "Standard, single session, with time for questions. After an introduction to the concept of and theory behind mindfulness, and a guided mindfulness exercise, we will discuss how it can apply more broadly to the museum environment. Further examples of mindfulness in museum practices and programs will follow, from one or more additional panelists. The takeaways are a mindfulness exercise and the opportunity to introduce mindfulness in a variety of ways in museum environments."
audience = "General"
level = "Any"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "The session related to the 2019 theme of ENGAGE is that it will focus on the ways museums engage with their communities and staff. The fostering of mindfulness has the potential to contribute to positive and more engaged work environments, and unconventional partnerships to present educational programs."
theme_comments = "We would like help finding presenters. We are especially interested in involving museum educators or program developers whose institutions are already offering mindfulness exercises for their staff and/or visitors. HR directors and individuals responsible for staff development/team building could also contribute to the conversation. We are willing to merge with another session."

[submitter]
first_name = "Britney "
last_name = "Whiting-Looze"
title = "Development Manager"
institution = "Boise Art Museum"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "(208) 345-8330 x 126"
email = "britney@boiseartmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
