+++
ID = "85"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "terra@boiseartmuseum.org"
session_title = "Workshop: Functional Fashion"
session_desc = "Each of us has a different idea of what “professional” dress entails and we all wear many hats. What do you wear if you are making public presentations, walking a nature trail, meeting with board members, and then shelving objects all in the same day? Part fashion show, part policy discussion, part networking event, this workshop presents a unique way to discuss dress codes and individuality - a topic that can be difficult for administrators and employees."
session_unique = "This half-day workshop is a light-hearted approach to discussing individuality, professionalism, and dress codes. It invites museum professionals to discuss the functional, fun, and funky aspects of fashion in the workplace."
session_objectives = "Local stylists will work with an art museum, a cultural museum, and a botanical garden to create three mini fashion shows. Each presentation will include an introduction to the institution, including their values and office culture, the requirements of their dress code, and the practical needs of their attire. Between fashion presentations, attendees will be encouraged to consider their own institutional policies and discuss current social issues surrounding fashion and dress. Topics could include tattoos and piercings, body positivity, gender neutral policies, religious and cultural attire, or OSHA requirements. Due to the nature of this format and for planning purposes, all presenters will be from Boise-based organizations. However, special care will be given to select a workshop discussion host who can guide the conversations and speak to issues that are relevant to small and large institutions from a wide range of communities."
engagement = ""
audience = "All"
level = "All"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "This workshop will engage museum professionals in a dialog about dress code polices through a fun, social event-style format. The structure of this workshop will provide opportunities for guided conversations about challenging issues surrounding policy, inclusivity, and social equity as well as casual conversations about dress code, fashion trends, and individual expression."
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Terra"
last_name = "Feast"
title = "Curator of Education"
institution = "Boise Art Museum"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-345-8330, ext. 118"
email = "terra@boiseartmuseum.org"
email2 = "Terra.feast@gmail.com"
is_mod = ""
is_pres = true
+++
