+++
ID = "78"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "melanie@boiseartmuseum.org"
session_title = "Welcoming Refugees and New Americans to Museums"
session_desc = "Engaging new Americans and refugees has become a recent focus of museums, especially in communities that officially provide refuge. Museums have come up with creative and diverse ways to engage this audience and to demonstrate their philosophical openness to refugees and new Americans through exhibitions, educational programs, and special memberships. This session will provide the opportunity to share examples, knowledge and experiences and brainstorm possibilities as our field develops best practices."
session_unique = "Migration is not a new phenomenon, however the influx of re-settlement and recent world events have resulted in the establishment of certain communities as centers and safe havens for refugees, and museums are responding to this relatively new development by engaging in creative and unique ways."
session_objectives = "1. To provide examples of museums’ efforts to welcome and engage new Americans and refugees, including what has worked, what has not.\n2. To create a forum for brainstorming ways for museums to effectively and meaningfully engage new Americans and refugees."
engagement = "Standard, single session format beginning with introspective questions, small-group brainstorming, sharing, discussion and question/answer."
audience = "educators, curators, membership, development"
level = "All"
other_comments = "Other possible presenters: 1. Jenni Martin\nDirector of Education & Programs\nChildren’s Discovery Museum of San Jose\n408-298-5437\ndirectorofeducation@cdm.org\nChildren’s Discovery Museum of San Jose, California has a program for immigrant families centered on the shared ingredients in their common food dishes. Jacques Lavergne or Helen Delacretaz\n2. Vice President, Visitor Experience and Engagement Director, Exhibitions\nCanadian Museum of Human Rights Canadian Museum of Human Rights. This museum recently displayed an exhibition entitled Seeking Refuge that brings together the experiences and perspectives of two teenage boys, one a refugee and the other a young artist who felt compelled to act in response to the refugee crisis. According to their website, more than 65 million people are currently displaced by conflict or persecution. This project contributed to reflection and dialogue about the refugee crisis. This installation is particularly interesting because it stems from, and invites, youth engagement."
theme_relationship = "This session is directly tied to the theme of Engage by 1) engaging the new audience of new Americans and refugees, and 2) engaging with the world changes and a philosophical commitment to global inclusion in our new and diverse society. This topic is high on the political agenda on both sides and museums can bridge this gap through their engagement efforts, creating a moment when museums can again highlight their value to society."
theme_comments = "I am open to suggestions for presenters on this topic from WMA museums with model examples. I am willing to merge with another session. I have a list of possible presenters below and welcome ideas and suggestions."

[submitter]
first_name = "Melanie"
last_name = "Fales"
title = "Executive Director/CEO"
institution = "Boise Art Museum"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "(208) 345-8330 x 111"
email = "melanie@boiseartmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
