+++
ID = "71"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "DakotaK@Mithun.com"
session_title = "Place Matters: Site Specific Interpretation"
session_desc = "Site-specific interpretation provides an authentic experience of place and creates a powerful lens into the legacy of an individual or cultural group. Providing visitors with a contextual experience is accomplished through methods tailored to each site’s unique characteristics. This idea will be explored in detail through four locations: the Basque Block Museum and Cultural Center, James Castle House, Hemingway House and Preserve, and the Suquamish Cultural District."
session_unique = "These four sites are distinct examples of place specificity and demonstrate how a site integrates and evokes history, museum content and visitor experience."
session_objectives = "1. Explore Site-Specific Interpretation\nThis session will explore interpretive and contextual approaches to institutions and districts that engage in site-specific and experiential ways. These include 1) the Basque Block, including the Basque Museum and Cultural Center, that occupies an urban block in Boise surrounded by immigrant-owned businesses; 2) James Castle House interpretive exhibits featuring work by outsider artist James Castle and rotating artists in residence; 3) the Hemingway House and Preserve; and 4) the Suquamish Cultural District comprised of the Suquamish Museum and House of Awakened Culture, host of tribal canoe journey landings and events like “Sovereign Style”, a contemporary interpretation of traditional native fashion. Outcome: Participants will be inspired to apply to their own visitor engagement strategies. \n2. Create a Dialog on Cultural Equity\nThe four case studies will present an unlikely combination of subjects that address artistic creation and living culture through the lens of immigration, disability, mental health and historically oppressed people. Each of these case studies will foster a forum for a conversation on accessibility, representation, contemporary perception, stigma and personal voice. Outcome: Participants will think about these issues in fresh ways that may inform programs at their institutions. \n3.Share Experience of Northwest Cultural Institutions and Districts\nThis is an opportunity to compare and contrast four cultural sites that are unique to Idaho and the Northwest region. Outcome: WMA conference participants may wish to visit and learn from their own experience at some of these interpretive environments and gain a contextual understanding of these places."
engagement = "Modified Ignite Format Combined with a Moderated Panel: The moderator will introduce the session and provide contextual and conceptual themes for panel discussion. Key participants will share four case study examples with projected images in a modified “Ignite” format, 5 – 8 minutes each. Audience members are encouraged to write questions to ask panelists. Moderator facilitates Q & A between audience and panel."
audience = "Institutions with a site-specific focus or attendees who are interested in learning tools for developing a site-specific program and visitor experience."
level = "All levels will find something of interest."
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "All case studies demonstrate strong community ENGAGEMENT. The Hemingway House and Preserve is managed by a community library; James Castle House is managed by the City of Boise; the Suquamish Museum and Cultural District is managed, programmed and operated by the Suquamish people; and Basque Block is managed by a non-profit organization for immigrants. Additionally, there public engagement opportunities are connected to each of these examples—an artist-in-residence program, an international cultural festival, national seminars and events that promote traditional life ways and living culture."
theme_comments = "While the James Castle House and Basque Museum and Cultural Center may enter proposals for other sessions, the content for those sessions is different than what would be presented in this session. The speakers would also different so there will be no scheduling conflicts."

[submitter]
first_name = "Dakota J"
last_name = "Keen"
title = "Associate Principal"
institution = "MITHUN"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206-971-3435"
email = "DakotaK@Mithun.com"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
