+++
ID = "30"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "acraig@uoregon.edu"
session_title = "Leading Change Initiatives (It?s all about engaging people!)"
session_desc = "Leading change \" whether it's a new space, initiative, or even a mindset \"  can evoke excitement, resistance, or even fear. Whether you?ve come to WMA with changes in mind, or you?re leaving with new ideas to implement when you get home, you?ll benefit from this discussion on how to engage a team through careful listening and observation. And, you?ll get to talk with some of the most successful museum change leaders inspiring enthusiasm and cooperation. 74/75"
session_unique = "The session will be innovative because we will investigate the influence of human resources - a topic not often provided at WMA. 22/25"
session_objectives = "After attending this session participants will \n*1.) Be introduced to established leadership and organizational models and be able to connect with at least one for further investigation:||-Bolman and Deal's Four Frames from the classic leadership text Reframing Organizations, first published 25 years ago and now in its 6th edition. ||-Influencer model and the sources of influence from Influencer: The New Science of Leading Change, 2013.||-Creating Magic, ||-Others or substitutes to be determined with further consultation with the panel and recommendations from WMA\n*2.) Be inspired to take time and care in how changes are proposed and implemented at their museums||-Instead of complaining about board/staff/director/volunteers \" use strategies to sew positive thinking and resolve potential concerns before they arise.||-Participants will have awareness of resources available to them to outline plans for introducing change; possibly take time to draft some of their ideas during the session\n*3.) Have the opportunity to interact with one another and some of the best leaders in the field ||-participants will have the opportunity to interact with leading directors who they may not otherwise have access to ||-participants will connect with one another and have the opportunity to stay connected after the session through a list-serv or simple email exchange\n*Outcomes:||-Develop an online community (through email exchange or a list-serv) focused on engaging museum teams through attentive listening and observation (in lieu of complaining about those who aren?t \"on board?)||-Increase competence among WMA professionals in human resources and management \n*245/250"
engagement = "Round Table \" \"Meet the Press' style\n*1.) Introduction and Icebreaker\n*What kind of organization are you? - Ann presents 2-3 models. Small group discussion and shar out. Consider \"change challenge.?\n*2.) Ann interviews panelists\n*At least four pre-planned questions, with opportunity for participants to ask or text questions to Ann.\n*3.) Change Challenge\n*Small group discussion. Volunteers offer change challenge to panel and full room. Use peer advising model. \n*4.) Round Up \" summarize data; offer resources \"to go?\n*78/75"
audience = "Any level of museum employee or volunteer looking to influence change."
level = "This session should be encouraged for all levels of staff and leadership in all areas and types of museums."
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Museums are always considering how to better engage audiences, but we often forget about leading that engagement from home base \" our volunteers, staff, and leadership. These internal groups are our \"allies' \" looking to fulfill a common mission. Anyone \" not just directors - can engage a team toward cooperation and success in new initiatives.  53/75"
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Ann"
last_name = "Craig"
title = "Director of Public Programs and Exhibitions"
institution = "University of Oregon Museum of Natural and Cultural History"
location = "Eugene, OR"
tel = "541-346-3116"
email = "acraig@uoregon.edu"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
