+++
ID = "55"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "Lsnyder1222@gmail.com"
session_title = "Motherhood and Museum Professionals: Creating Environments Supportive of Work/Life Balance"
session_desc = "Babies and work!  Babies at work?  Babies and no work?\"  Hear true tales of 4+ babies born to museum professionals and their experience as mothers in the workplace.  Supportive?  Neutral?  Discriminatory?  Then work collectively with other participants to explore strategies to ensure museums have systems in place to achieve both what's best for the museum and for their staff.  We?ll focus on parent-hood, but conversations will apply more broadly to any work/life balance.  "
session_unique = "As a field (particularly one chock-full of women in their child-bearing years), do we really support young families'  We seek discussion leading to improvements."
session_objectives = "1) Expose museum professionals to a variety of responses from institutions regarding maternity leave/parenthood in the museum to offer insight into some of the successes/problems in this area.\n*2) Through meaningful group discussions, explore both goals for museums to meet in this area and options for how to achieve those goals.\n*3) Open a forum for discussion on this topic that can be revisited in other formats/future meetings. "
engagement = "Session will be a mix of PechaKucha to introduce some ideas, Spectogram to allow for participants to share their experiences and make meaningful groups for an Unconference-style discussion with some thoughtful prompts designed to help participants leave the session with a plan of action.  State-specific resources will also be made available regarding maternity leave and other pertinent information."
audience = "Any museum professional \" particularly relevant to leadership and/or human resources staff"
level = "Any"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Creating a positive and caring work environment  - this is essentially the core of our session, which we will look at through the lens of maternity/paternity leave/parenthood."
theme_comments = "We would definitely be willing to merge with another presenter/group.  We are actively seeking other presenters, particularly someone with an HR background, but if the proposal reviewers have suggestions, that would be great."

[submitter]
first_name = "Lindsey"
last_name = "Snyder"
title = "Museum Education PhD Student"
institution = "University of British Columbia"
location = "Vancouver, British Columbia  (live in Ferndale, Washington)"
tel = "815-483-0228"
email = "Lsnyder1222@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_mod = false
is_pres = true
+++
