+++
ID = "58"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "dzilafro@mattconstruction.com"
session_title = "ENGAGE with your collections:  Offsite Storage or Museum Resource?  Concepts in offsite storage, the pros and cons of outsourcing vs. insourcing."
session_desc = "Resource centers are trending, and most collections continue to grow.  What are the pros and cons to developing an offsite storage run by your institution, vs. an outside art handling company or private contractor?  What are the risk factors' The unspoken costs'  Is there a way to pitch this to funders?"
session_unique = "I am not sure that anyone at WMA has addressed this topic in the past, and there have been some recent successes in our region with the Resource Center model.  Also, we are attempting to discuss the possibility of a shared resource center (storage) between institutions, using the Parks Service as a potential model to emulate or learn from."
session_objectives = "1) Give museums of different types and sizes a framework to evaluate whether an internally-run off-site resource center might be a better or worse solution than outsourcing those functions.\n*2) Share lessons learned from those who have created and run resource centers, as well as revenue potential for unused space.\n*3) Spark discussion around the potential of collaborating on a resource center solution in different geographic areas."
engagement = "Three resource center panelists will share the story behind their facility's development, including funding sources, rationale, and objectives.  They will also take us through average operational costs, staffing, and what makes their specific solution unique.  They will end with a look-back to see whether the center has performed in the way that they had hoped, and/or whether it surprised them in any ways (positive or negative).  Facilitator will solicit audience feedback on the subject, and provoke questions about new models that might be collaborative."
audience = "Museum directors and/or senior facilities or operations-focused teams.  Some content relevant to senior level curators."
level = "Any"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "One of the drivers behind at least one of our resource centers was the fact that the curatorial team was not engaging often with the collection that was previously held in contracted art handling/storage space.  This solution allowed the curators to more easily access the collection at any given time, without additional costs, and to have actual museum resources on-site for such engagement.  "
theme_comments = "Right now I think we have sufficient leads for presenting.  Dafna from MATT Construction will facilitate and frame the dialogue (and have resources available for cost implications of such construction).  The three speakers on the panel are proposed as follows:\n*1) Rachel Faust, (confirmed), Manager of Artist's Initiative, SFMOMA's resource center\n*2) Ursula Filice (tentative), California State Parks\n*3) LaLena Lewark, Sr. Director, Collections & Conservation, The Autry Museum & Resource Center  (confirmed)\n*The tentative Parks Dept representative may not be the final panelist, but may suggest another person from her institution. \n*Open to any program committee changes or recommendations, including changing facilitator or any panelists."

[submitter]
first_name = "Dafna"
last_name = "Kaplan (Zilafro)"
title = "Vice President"
institution = "MATT Construction"
location = "Los Angeles, CA and Redwood Shores, CA"
tel = "310-245-0287"
email = "dzilafro@mattconstruction.com"
email2 = "dzilafro@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
