+++
ID = "21"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "Mark.breske@ishs.idaho.gov"
session_title = "Mission, Messaging, Media: Implementing an Engaging Marketing Campaign"
session_desc = "There are many variables in marketing a project. We take a look at the three main cornerstones in a marketing campaign; messaging, media best practices, and laying a solid, cohesive foundation. While marketing campaigns of any size can be a large undertaking involving many people, this session aims to divide the workload into manageable categories that minimize overlapping, yet promote collaboration and engagement within the workgroup, media, and community.  "
session_unique = "Focus on engagement within these three main marketing areas and how they apply to any campaign, large or small, in any type of institution. This is a scalable approach with a model that can be applied to workgroups outside of marketing and communications."
session_objectives = "1. Outline three cornerstones in a successful marketing campaign. We will take a look at how messaging, media best practices, and a strong brand foundation work together to engage all audiences effectively and consistently.\n*2. Provide strategies in developing a timeline for planning, outreach, and engagement. Timing is a moving target in marketing a campaign. These strategies serve as general guidelines in how to approach the logistics of a campaign.\n*3. Review best practices when engaging with media. When should you begin conducting media outreach to promote your campaign? How can you engage with media and effectively foster productive relationships' What type of information should be delivered to media? We will clearly answer all these questions related to productive partnerships with media outlets."
engagement = "This will be a standard 3-person panel format with each panelist presenting on a specific cornerstone of the marketing campaign planning strategy. Presenters will utilize a PowerPoint to assist in breaking down all of the information within the presentation with specific sections inviting audience participation. There will also be time allocated towards a Q&A session at the end of the panel discussion."
audience = "Marketing and communications staff, with some emphasis on smaller organizations where marketing is a secondary job duty."
level = "From new employee to senior/executive staff."
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "This session is incredibly relevant to this year's theme in that it does not focus on engagement with one specific entity. Engagement is a part of the entire process from engaging with staff in making a plan and creating a foundation, to engaging with media partners with the proper content at the right times, and ultimately engaging with communities and stakeholders to convey accurate and impactful brand messaging."
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Mark"
last_name = "Breske"
title = "Marketing and Communications Officer"
institution = "Idaho State Historical Society"
location = "Boise, ID"
tel = "(208) 514-2330"
email = "Mark.breske@ishs.idaho.gov"
email2 = "Mark.breske@ishs.idaho.gov"
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
