+++
ID = "14"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "katrina@worldofspeed.org"
session_title = "Collection Tools & Programming: Share & Workshop Ideas with Your Peers"
session_desc = "Time and resources often impact what we can provide. Many of us have had to or are looking to find creative solutions within budget, resource availability, and institutional parameters, using ingenuity and creativity to enact high impact, low cost projects to a scale that fits our organizations' needs, abilities and goals. In small groups first, participants workshop their own project ideas and share time- and resource-saving options in order to move each other's projects forward.  "
session_unique = "Participants have the opportunity to conversationally workshop specific project ideas to fit their needs, requirements and scale with the insights, support and input of colleagues. "
session_objectives = "1. Empower participants through engagement by utilizing a format that puts all their tools and programming ideas, no matter the scale, on the same footing in discussing their issues and ideas amongst multiple peer viewpoints. This format is in particular support of those managing with limited resources such as budget, services, and staff. \n*2. Facilitate a community- and resource-building opportunity that brings about the showcasing and sharing of problem-solving ingenuity and need-fulfilling creativity programming and tools that are happening by professionals throughout the field.\n*3. Offer participants opportunities to share and learn from each other's experiences and knowledge by workshopping ideas and getting direct feedback, thereby offering directly-qualifying tool and possible out-of-the box solutions that participants can use to enact and provide programs and tools; create group-built solution takeaway. "
engagement = "After introduction to whole group, participants take part in smaller discussion groups where each has the opportunity to share and workshop their project(s) including concerns, parameters and requirements. Their group offer ideas, past experiences, or resources that may help move each participant's project towards fruition. After the workshopping discussions, each group will add to the communal idea wall (shared later, digitally) matching the discussion handout, ie. projects, solutions, resources, and partnerships ideas; full-group wrap-up discussion."
audience = "Professionals implementing collection-related tools/resources in small to midsize organizations looking for new ideas and resources to deal with strained resources."
level = " Project leaders, organizers, and facilitators such as associates, managers, dept. heads, and program leads."
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "  Please describe?\n*The workshop session offers an inclusive space for a diverse set of voices (and ears) to pull together a widened range of solutions for actionable engagement of programming and tools by helping to find implementable solutions. Rather than a one-sided presentation where people take examples to reflect in silo, they can workshop their own ideas and utilize a wider range of experience and knowledge to engage. "
theme_comments = "While I would also reaching out to colleagues to help, I would welcome individuals who would be interested in being leads/group secretaries in the small discussion groups. "

[submitter]
first_name = "Katrina"
last_name = "O'Brien"
title = "Archivist & Collection Manager"
institution = "World of Speed Motorsports Museum"
location = "Wilsonville, OR"
tel = "971.226.1681"
email = "katrina@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = "katrinatobrien@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
+++
