+++
ID = "19"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "Anelle1@gcpud.org"
session_title = "Engagement through NAGPRA Practice: Methods, Strategies, and Common Goals for Tribes and Museums"
session_desc = "Tribal and museum practitioners will present methods and strategies to accomplish the requirements and intentions of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act. Nearing the 30 year anniversary of legislation, they have come together on the Columbia Plateau to engage and find common goals in practice. This serves as a model for cultivating a larger community of practice that increases capacity of implementation and decreases misunderstanding as tribes and museums connect and collaborate.  "
session_unique = "This session speaks to unspoken tribal and museum practices of NAGPRA implementation. It reveals where convergence occurs bringing together what appears to be diverse positions."
session_objectives = "Repatriation requires people to cooperate with each other to implement NAGPRA. Three presentations will address practice, engagement, and capacity. The first addresses how Columbia Plateau tribes work together informed by traditional teachings. Returning ancestors back to the earth requires keeping a good heart while dealing with issues that often bring modern \"tribes' into conflict. The spiritual and practical aspects of repatriation will be discussed. \n*NAGPRA cultural affiliation requires a local and regional history. The Columbia Plateau tribes collaboratively work with Central Washington University to develop and implement tools and methodologies. These practical, positive, and pre-emptive approaches allows for a visible, participatory process where the tribes are at the table and in the lab from inventory to cultural affiliation. This working relationship has led to a joint project that brings data recovered from archaeological reports, osteometric studies, private collector's journals, and museum accession records together in a large data set. This data set illustrates networks on the Plateau which help in proactive cultural affiliation determinations. \n*The collaboration and engagement on the Columbia Plateau serves as a regional model to NAGPRA practitioners from across the United States. This sessionis part of an IMLS funded project to cultivate a community of practice to support NAGPRA implementation by increasing capacity and decreasing misunderstandings regarding requirements and procedures. "
engagement = "This will be a single session panel with three speakers in a standard format concluding with time for audience discussion and questions. Tribal and museum practitioners will present methods and strategies to accomplish the requirements and intentions of NAGPRA revealing inclusive, positive and caring partnerships. These practices serve as a model for cultivating a larger community of practice that increases capacity and decreases misunderstanding as tribes and museums engage on a regional level."
audience = "The intended audience is for museum practitioners at all levels working with NAGPRA and/or engaging with Native American tribes."
level = "All"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Museums have become more inclusive and diverse since the passage of NAGPRA. As museums address the requirements of the law they have adapted to working with tribes in its implementation. This session provides awareness on how museums and tribes engage in order to meet diverse goals. It is through these unconventional partnerships that common ground can be found and opportunities for collaboration beyond NAGPRA can occur."
theme_comments = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Angela J."
last_name = "Neller"
title = "Curator"
institution = "Wanapum Heritage Center"
location = "Beverly, Washington"
tel = "509-766-3468"
email = "Anelle1@gcpud.org"
email2 = "hiilani@fairpoint.net"
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
