+++
ID = "70"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "amber.beierle@ishs.idaho.gov"
session_title = "Nailed It/Failed It: Success & failure in fundraising events and programs"
session_desc = "A year of planning an event. Stressed-out staff. Little or no profit. Now what? Sometimes the secret to success is in an epic failure. Three museum professionals map the road to success through detours of failure; demonstrating events and programs that “nailed it,” “failed it,” or “sailed through it.” We hope to spark innovation, cultivate new event and program ideas, road map good planning, and learn from colossal mistakes."
session_unique = "Most sessions, rightfully, boast about successful programs, but we often learn more from failure. This adds humor and candor in the serious business of fundraising."
session_objectives = "1. Identify common patterns in “failed” events/programs. This entails tangible ways we can understand the role failures play in our successes. Talking about and learning from these failures will allow people the courage to try new things, with a new understanding of how to avoid the \n\n2. Demonstrate best\npractices in event evaluation. We will list the right questions to ask your\nagency/museum and your visitors to have the best possible event/program.\n\n\n\n"
engagement = "Mostly a standard session with panelists presenting at least three unique events/programs using PowerPoint and other audio/visual tools. Some interactive elements with audience participation. Breaking up in smaller groups, each will be given an actual event scenario to decide if the organizers “nailed it”, “failed it”, or “sailed it.”"
audience = "Planning staff (curators, event coordinators, etc.), but some emphasis on small museum staffs that do it all."
level = "From new employee to senior/executive staff"
other_comments = "Part of the lesson is in that event planning should be on everyone’s radar from customer service to Trustees."
theme_relationship = "This is all about engaging in the process. Additionally, this demonstrates that purposeful planning is all about engaging your audiences in the right way to get them to show up for you, especially during fundraisers. Essentially events are more successful when audience-driven (focused). We will help session-goers imagine and re-imagine their ideas, tapping into our audience as well as our staff’s creativity."
theme_comments = "This could easily be a stand-alone session or merged with a similar session(s). If merged there might be a need to pare down committed panelists. Always open to making it the strongest session possible."

[submitter]
first_name = "Amber"
last_name = "Beierle"
title = "Historic Sites Administrator"
institution = "Old Idaho Penitentiary (Idaho State Historical Society)"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-488-7480"
email = "amber.beierle@ishs.idaho.gov"
email2 = "amber.beierle@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
