+++
ID = "51"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "emilyjohnson@utah.gov"
session_title = "Museum Service Providers, Field Service Officers, and Funders Roundtable"
session_desc = "This session will give those engaged in museum services \" as field service officers, funders, or museum services offices \" a chance to engage one another in a dialogue about their unique challenges and perspectives in the field. Designed for these professionals to speak with one another about pressing issues, the session is also open to those who want to know more about what services might be available to their museum through a field service office near them."
session_unique = "There are relatively few providers of field services in the Western region, and there are not many opportunities for them to convene. This is also an opportunity for WMA to capitalize on the presence of these kinds of museum professionals at a conference more typically populated by people working in individual organizations. "
session_objectives = "To connect field service providers to one another \" who is operating in the region?; To increase the visibility of these programs in the field, and to find ways for these professionals to use WMA as a professional development opportunity.; To connect museums at WMA to these programs, and to increase their awareness of them."
engagement = "While AASLH maintains a Field Service Alliance as part of their work, a more regional presence in the West for this kind of work has not been established. I imagine this to be a kind of round table or a small group discussion based on the issues facing these professionals, rather than a session dependent on presentations. Takeaways are a greater understanding of who in the region is doing what, how we can help each other and steal ideas from one another, and how through better interactions with one another, we can improve our service of museums in the West. "
audience = "People engaged in field services work, or who work at funding organizations or museum services offices"
level = "Any"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Museum field services officers and funders are arguably the hub that enables many (especially smaller) museums to do the work they do. Speaking personally, I am deeply engaged in the work that museums across the state of Utah are doing, and looking for ways that I can help them do more to engage with their own audiences. The more these kinds of providers can engage with each other, the better they can serve museums more broadly."
theme_comments = "I have a lot of ideas for session presenters, though none are confirmed. I am aware of the people doing this kind of work in Utah, Idaho, Washington, Oregon, and Alberta (maybe California \" unclear). I am always really excited to meet others who work in field services, so if you know someone I haven?t mentioned, please let me know!"

[submitter]
first_name = "Emily"
last_name = "Johnson"
title = "Museum Services Specialist"
institution = "Utah Division of Arts and Museums"
location = "Salt Lake City, UT"
tel = "801-245-7289"
email = "emilyjohnson@utah.gov"
email2 = "She.is.emily@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = true
+++
