+++
ID = "28"
timestamp = "2018-12-13T22:06:51.000Z"
form_email = "pattyam@basquemuseum.eus"
session_title = "Uncovering Stories then Preserving and Sharing them in Different Ways-||Successful Models for Use in Large and Small Museums"
session_desc = "A case study of two successful, grassroots projects involving research and the collection of information, by community, in the western US and the utilization of these collected materials - oral histories, photographs, documents, and artifacts, in various formats."
session_unique = "Participants will walk away with ideas of how to collect unique resources to enhance their collections and will learn how these can be utilized and shared with the public in various mediums including exhibits, catalogs, and the Internet."
session_objectives = "Our goal is to inspire attendees to utilize versions of these two models in their own institutions, large or small. Attendees will learn of techniques for data collection, processing, and storage and will be given ideas for how to utilize the resources collected to expand their collections and to incorporate the information in various mediums including exhibits with interactive components, catalogs, and via the Internet.  Preservation of the information is a key component of both projects as is making the information accessible to a wide audience. The personal connections made and engagement with individuals, families and other institutions in many communities throughout the West as partners in this effort is extremely important and is directly related to the success of both projects.  Attendees will learn of techniques used in both projects to engage individuals to participate in and support the goals of both projects."
engagement = "The session will begin with the case study - the Basque Community History Project. Presenters will give brief examples of their work related to the overall project utilizing  power point slides & video excerpts.  Attendees will then tour the \"Inner Strength? exhibit.  Presenters will focus on various elements included in the exhibit - photographs, audio and video resources, the use of artifacts, and the catalog as a final product of the project.  "
audience = "Large or small museum employees or volunteers.  Information may spark ideas for directors, curators, or engaged volunteers."
level = "Information could be used by Directors, Curators, or Volunteers"
other_comments = "Participants can speak directly with presenters for more in-depth detail regarding the activity he/she is involved in."
theme_relationship = "Both of these projects required the engagement of people - going directly to communities, to organizations and literally door-to-door to individual houses to collect stories, photographs, and documents.  Their stories, photographs, artifacts, and documents have then been shared through exhibits, through a catalog, and through a newly-created webpage. Multiple ways to engage the public and provide a resource to them.   "
theme_comments = "All of the presenters are local and are intimately involved in one of the projects used as case studies for the session.  There would be too much content to merge with another session, unless it was expanded to a double session.\n*We respectfully request that the session be held at the Basque Museum & Cultural Center (611 Grove Street), across the street from the conference center, so that attendees can experience the Inner Strength: Portraits of Basque Women exhibit that will be on display in the Museum's gallery."

[submitter]
first_name = "Patty"
last_name = "A. Miller"
title = "Director, Basque Community History Project"
institution = "Basque Museum & Cultural Center"
location = "Boise, ID  83702"
tel = "208/343-2671"
email = "pattyam@basquemuseum.eus"
email2 = "n.a."
is_mod = false
is_pres = true
+++
