+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP039"
last_modified = "2020-05-13T00:38:06.000Z"
session_title = "The Words We Use (or Don’t Use): Equity in Museums"
session_desc = """Words matter: Hear from different types of institutions and museum professionals at various levels about ways we should rethink the words we use in our work. Speakers will talk about language in promoting equity in museum hiring and the visitor experience, from the logistics of how institutions can foster change to a checklist for implementing updates. Participants will have time to brainstorm with presenters and leave with tools they can use in their own institutions."""
session_track = "Business"
session_track_id = "recLvGkztSUi5y89b"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session draws from a diverse presenters, helping participants understand how their institutions can be more relevant and equitable, leaving with tools to affect change."""
session_objectives = """This session is designed for both front line or entry level and management museum workers, and those attending this session will: • Learn about three different types of museums’ efforts to change language towards a goal of achieving racial equity. • Explore strategies these museums’ employ both in museum operations and in interpretation to affect change, and consider ways to they can use these tactics in their own institutions. • Understand examples from different progressions on an equity journey, through presentations and discussion with colleagues. • Brainstorm in small groups implementation in their own institution, including timing of change and ways around road blocks. • For front line employees or entry level workers, learn ways similar workers have sparked change at other institutions. • For museum management, explore procedures and policies that can foster change an institution. • All audience members will leave with handouts outlining the change process at each of the three institutions (from MOHAI a terminology update checklist, from The Discovery Center an Interpretation/Common Language sheet showcasing word choices that education and interpretive staff are making and overview of process for staff to flag and respond to possible issues of concern, and at PacSci examples of changed language in job descriptions)."""
session_engagement = """a) Three presenters outline a case study of updates to terminology usage at their institution, including tools/ strategies. (30 min.) b) Q&A with audience and whole group discussion. (15 min.) c) In groups of 4-5, attendees will brainstorm together ways to apply strategies discussed in their own institutions using handouts from presenters, including ways to overcome roadblocks. During this time, presenters and moderator will float between groups, offering guidance and/or answering questions (30 min.)"""
session_scalability = """Presenters themselves represent front line/entry level, mid-career, and management and come from a history, science, and visitor center. They will be able to discuss change at a wide variety of museums from different levels in the organization, and empower audience members to be the agents of change at their own institutions."""
audience = "General Audience"
level = "Emerging Professional,Mid-Career,Senior Level"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This session directly pushes our profession FORWARD. Presenters will share stories of embracing racial equity across the institution and empower participants to be the agents of change at their own museums."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "amberbeierle"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Anna"
last_name = "Elam"
title = "Library Collections Manager"
institution = "Museum of History & Industry"
location = "Seattle"
tel = "206-324-1126 x137"
email = "anna.elam@mohai.org"
email2 = "anna.elam@mohai.org"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """Anna worked on the terminology update process at MOHAI. In this process, she recognized the value of creating specific tools for this work and how helpful it would be to share these with others. She connected with Patrick and David about their efforts and created a panel that can talk about what this work looks like a variety of institutions and in both staffing and visitor experience. Anna identifies as white."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Adam"
last_name = "Lyon"
title = "Library & Photo Associate"
institution = "Museum of History & Industry"
location = "Seattle"
tel = "206-324-1126 x140"
email = "adam.lyon@mohai.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Adam began the terminology update for the Japanese American experience at MOHAI and did most of the foundation work reaching out to national and local organizations and crafting the language. He can speak to how this type of change can start at an institution and the steps of achieving this change. Adam is of partial Japanese ancestry but identifies as white."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Patrick"
last_name = "McMahon"
title = "Senior Manager, Engagement & Visitor Services"
institution = "Discovery Center, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206-770-1896"
email = "patrick.mcmahon@gatesfoundation.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Patrick is one of four on his institution’s committee to address concerns in visitor experience and can speak to several examples of considering racial equity and the visitor experience. Patrick is Japanese American and identifies as mixed race."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "David"
last_name = "Valentine"
title = "Community Access Specialist"
institution = "Pacific Science Center"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206-269-5741"
email = "dvalentine@pacsci.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """David helped create PacSci’s committee on inclusivity, diversity, equity, and accessibility. As part of this group, he has been a part of updating terminology at the center from personal pronouns to job descriptions and internal communications. In his current role he is working to build stronger relationships with schools and tribes throughout Washington. David identifies as mixed, with a native and white mother and black father."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Words matter: Hear from different types of institutions and museum professionals at various levels about ways we should rethink the words we use in our work. Speakers will talk about language in promoting equity in museum hiring and the visitor experience, from the logistics of how institutions can foster change to a checklist for implementing updates. Participants will have time to brainstorm with presenters and leave with tools they can use in their own institutions.