+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP069"
sort_id = 153
timestamp = "2/14/2020 17:47:46"
form_email = "misble@crockerart.org"
session_title = "Fostering Institutional Knowledge in Exhibit Design, Fabrication, and Installation"
session_desc = """Expertise in exhibit design, fabrication, and installation is often tied to the talents of individuals. Since this know-how rarely turns into institutional knowledge, how can we effectively maintain and build upon the experiences of these individuals? Join us for a roundtable discussion of exhibit case studies, exploring how we can go from technique to training within a sustainable culture of productivity and innovation."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "visitorexperience"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Exhibit design and execution are often behind the scenes and not often examined, but enhancing these areas means a stronger product for our visitors."""
session_objectives = """Institutional Knowledge The session will promote the importance of maintaining institutional knowledge. In addition, several real world techniques will be examined that the audience can execute the day after the conference. Staffing Experienced staff with high morale means fewer mistakes are made, the development and installation is quicker, and the end result is highly engaging for the visitor. The audience will walk away with actionable ideas for onboarding new staff as well as retaining experienced staff. Maintaining high morale is a central tenet when increasing the capacity of staff; fun and quirky ways of raising morale will be discussed. Innovation The audience will learn the prerequisites to innovation and learn to recognize opportunities to help it flourish. Without the building blocks of previous work history (the institutional knowledge) coupled with experienced and efficient staff, innovation can stall. Additionally the audience will come away with methods of fostering and encouraging innovation in a time and budget friendly way."""
session_engagement = """The audience is encouraged to ask questions of the panelists after their presentations. There will actionable techniques and ideas as take aways, the audience should come prepared to take a lot of notes. We intend to make the Powerpoint available via email upon request."""
session_scalability = """The session will cover issues faced by every museum size and type. Maintaining institutional knowledge and fostering innovation is a perennial problem for any business, but this session will focus solely on the design and installation of exhibits. Panelists for the session are from three museums types, each working with a different budget sizes."""
audience = "Registrars, Technology, Education, Design and Installation Departments, Fabricators, Executive Directors, Managers"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level"
other_comments = """I have three committed panelists. I'm willing to merge if it makes for a better WMA 2020."""
theme_relationship = """How do you move FORWARD without slipping backward? You retain your institutional knowledge and you encourage innovation. That may mean an improved documentation systems, an enhanced staff orientation, or an improvement to the culture and morale."""
theme_comments = """This session will focus on those that take the given exhibit topic or concept and take it across the finish line. This includes the design of the exhibit, the installation, as well as the educational components that give context to what the visitor experiences. This session seeks to help its audience retain the successes and failures along the way so they can build from and innovate on that knowledge."""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "jacquelinecabrera"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Matt"
last_name = "Isble"
title = "Director of Exhibition Design & Founder of MuseumTrade.org"
institution = "Crocker Art Museum"
location = "Sacramento"
tel = "916-808-1013"
email = "misble@crockerart.org"
email2 = "admin@museumtrade.org"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """As moderator I will introduce the panel and the main concepts. As the discussion moves along I may ask the panelists to dive deeper if I think a word or concept needs unpacking. As a lead into the Q&A portion with the audience I'll profess my shortcomings (related to the topic) and see if panelist have thoughts or solutions. I'll open it up to the audience for their burning questions and finish with a lighting round of questions for the panelists if we need filler at the end."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Somya"
last_name = "Singh"
title = "Director of Exhibits"
institution = "Portland Cihildren's Museum"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503-471-9927"
email = "ssingh@portlandcm.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Somya has many years of experience in multiple museum types. From her current role at the Portland Children's Museum, to the exhibition design department at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, to the McWane Science Center. She can speak practically about working in a wide range of museums."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Ben"
last_name = "Wildenhaus"
title = "Head Preparator and Exhibition Designer"
institution = "Tacoma Art Museum"
location = "Tacoma, WA"
tel = "253-272-4258 ext.3025"
email = "bwildenhaus@TacomaArtMuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """With more than a decade in mid sized art museums, Ben's deep knowledge of exhibition design and installation are further enhanced by experience opening two new museum wings."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Dave"
last_name = "Laubenthal"
title = "Creative Director"
institution = "Oregon Museum of Science and Industry"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503-797-4502"
email = "DLaubenthal@omsi.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Dave brings expertise from a Science museum with a strong background in creative design. He has taught and executed on interior design for many years."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Expertise in exhibit design, fabrication, and installation is often tied to the talents of individuals. Since this know-how rarely turns into institutional knowledge, how can we effectively maintain and build upon the experiences of these individuals? Join us for a roundtable discussion of exhibit case studies, exploring how we can go from technique to training within a sustainable culture of productivity and innovation.