+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP073"
sort_id = 164
timestamp = "2/18/2020 11:33:59"
form_email = "mbuff@tacomaartmuseum.org"
session_title = "Queer(y)ing the Museum"
session_desc = """“Queering” is the process of challenging assumptions, including heteronormativity, gender binaries, and systems of oppression. How can we use the practice of queering to query what we do in museums? What assumptions do we make about visitors, the art or artifacts exhibited, and the institution itself? Participants will explore how to unloose a straightjacket of assumptions and practices at all levels of the institution, freeing up a more welcoming place for staff and visitors alike."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "visitorexperience"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """We will address LGBTQ issues from a provocative, queer lens. Given the growing prevalence of LGBTQ people, museums must integrate inclusion into their everyday practice."""
session_objectives = """1. Participants will examine examples of how to incorporate queer history and welcome LGBTQ individuals and family units. 2. Participants will collaborate with colleagues to brainstorm assumptions, challenges to queering, and potential solutions, developing concrete deliverables for their own institutions. 3. Participants will develop a feeling of comfort and ownership about how to create welcoming queer spaces."""
session_engagement = """The session will begin with a short roundtable panel discussion. Then, participants will break out into groups based on specialization within the museum field. Panelists will serve as facilitators/instigators for the groups as they discuss applications to their specific area of work. Finally, the session will wrap up with a guided group discussion of what was discovered and what comes next."""
session_scalability = """Participants will have the opportunity in breakout sessions to consider how to apply the ideas presented to their own institutions. Fundamentally, this session challenges HOW we think about our work, which is applicable to people from any size or type of organiztion."""
audience = "General Audience"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """As museums move forward, how can we learn from the wisdom of LGBTQ folks about going beyond binary expectations? This session will present unique ways of approaching museum conversations, shifting perspectives, and fostering relevance."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "sethmargolis"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Mac"
last_name = "Buff"
title = "Associate Director of Education for Student and Teacher Programs"
institution = "Tacoma Art Museum"
location = "Tacoma"
tel = "253-272-4258 x3009"
email = "mbuff@tacomaartmuseum.org"
email2 = "mbuff@tacomaartmuseum.org"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Mac is a queer, non-binary transgender educator who is actively engaged in advocacy for LGBTQ museum staff, volunteers, and visitors. They contributed to AAM’s Guides to Gender Transition and Transgender Inclusion in the Museum Field (2019), facilitated a regional discussion about AAM’s LGBTQ Welcoming Guidelines, and have presented on transgender inclusion at state, regional, and national conferences."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Paul"
last_name = "Gabriel"
title = "Educational Consultant"
institution = "Independent"
location = "San Francisco, CA"
tel = "415-310-6640"
email = "paul@sfspark.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Paul was Exhibits Director for the GLBT Historical Society of San Francisco, has been an active member of the Alliance for Lesbian and Gay Concerns of AAM, and has written on and consulted about LGBTQ issues for museums. He has also has been an advocate for diversity and inclusion in the field."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "W James "
last_name = "Burns"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Arizona Historical Society"
location = "Phoenix, AZ"
tel = "602-509-8523"
email = "wjamesburns@hotmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """James is a queer museum director who has engaged in quietly subversive queering practices in museums for 20 years. He has worked in history, art, and anthropology museums of all sizes in small towns and large cities in deeply conservative states. As the former chair of the AAM LGBTQ Alliance he spearheaded the “LGBTQ Welcoming Guidelines for Museums.” (2016 version). James understands the challenges faced by small or rural museums and is sensitive to the concerns of museum professionals just beginning inclusion work."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Rose"
last_name = "Mathison"
title = "Museology graduate student"
institution = "University of Washington"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "253-213-5669"
email = "rjmath@uw.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Rose is a queer and Filipinx student in the Museology Graduate Program through the University of Washington. Pairing their community engagement and extensive museum background such as the Tacoma Art Museum, Museum of Glass, and currently Burke Museum, they are an active advocate for LGBTQ+ and marginalized community representation within the museum world. Rose is dedicated to the work of museums addressing institutionalized oppression, and facilitating internal alignment."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
“Queering” is the process of challenging assumptions, including heteronormativity, gender binaries, and systems of oppression. How can we use the practice of queering to query what we do in museums? What assumptions do we make about visitors, the art or artifacts exhibited, and the institution itself? Participants will explore how to unloose a straightjacket of assumptions and practices at all levels of the institution, freeing up a more welcoming place for staff and visitors alike.