+++
ID = "WMA2019_SP33R"
timestamp = "2019-02-21T14:43:45.363Z"
form_email = ""
session_title = "Building an Empathetic Museum"
session_desc = "Can practicing empathy evolve museums from \"paper\" diversity plans to meaningful change? This panel explores how very different museums have begun using empathy after participating in The Empathetic Museum workshop offered at WMA 2018. What tools can lead to more equitable and inclusive museums? If your museum is struggling to engage your full community, you can benefit from this session as we define strategies to put to use and common pitfalls to avoid."
session_track = ""
session_type = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists) / Break-out"
session_unique = "The session will be innovative because we will involve our audience in reflecting as individuals and as organizations."
session_objectives = "Takeaways: After attending this session participants will 1. Learn how to use and place their organization within the Maturity Model; Participants will understand that creating \"diversity\" isn't about checking boxes or counting up \"minorities.\" Instead, we seek to redistribute power and change how we define our collections, exhibits, and programs. programmatic activities. -define key terms -the use and misuse of \"diversity plans\" -we each have a role, and a bias 2. Be ready to initiate new equity and inclusion activities in their strategic planning and daily work; Empathy take time to build, but it can be practiced and improved. And, becoming a more empathetic museum is good for your museum and your community (and the world!). Participants will develop a vocabulary, leave with a list of resources, and learn about the efforts at work in other museums. We'll use the Calls to Action defined in Facing Change to get started. 3. Know how to avoid common pitfalls that occur in museums who are trying to do the \"right thing,\" but result in further alienating constituencies, especially understanding that building empathy takes time. Concrete takeaways show how successful long-term strategies can drive attendance and funding, while taking no action or attempting well-meaning, but short-sighted activities have the opposite effect. Outcomes:1.)\tParticipants will have an increase understanding (via vocabulary, a resource list, and examples) of how to implement equity and inclusion activities. 2.)\tThis introductory session will set the foundation to increase in quality and quantity of 2020 WMA session and workshop proposals for DEI at multiple stages of development and implementation (proliferation of sharing experiences and strategies) "
engagement = "Single Session Panel with Break Out Time 1.) Intro/Icebreaker, Lisa Sasaki Intro to Facing Change and other resources. Stacey and/or Janeen*ask audience to \"think and write\", then \"pair and share\" how their institution fits the Maturity Model (MM). Explain diversity dilemmas for end of session. 2.) Panelists define their museum's MM and offer progress and pitfalls 3.) General Q & A 4.) Divide into three groups, discuss a diversity dilemma at each "
audience = "Museum professionals new to DEI activities.This session is appropriate as an introduction to DEI activities for any type of museum and any level of staff."
level = "This session is appropriate as an introduction to DEI activities for any type of museum and any level of staff."
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Yes. If museums are to truly \"engage\" with their communities, then they must be representative of and by those communities. Understanding the perspectives and experiences of \"others\" and bringing observation to our own biases is not only critical to engaging people in the museum environment, but also crucial to next steps in our collective human experience"
theme_comments = "1.) Bryant and Mann will pre-record an introduction to the Maturity Model. (They are unlikely to be able to attend in person). The purpose of this is to ensure that Mann and Bryant are properly credited for their work, avoiding joining the prevalent pattern of racially biased citations (Ray, V. Inside Higher Ed, 27 April 2018). 2.) I have invited two additional panelists, Kristen Mihalko, who also attended the 2018 Workshop and Brian Carter, executive director of the African American Museum Association. Kristen may only be able to attend the panel if it is scheduled for Monday afternoon or Tuesday. I have not had confirmation from Brian Carter. 3.) I did reach out to Jim Cullen per the WMA program committee's suggestion, but Cullen is most likely not available to attend. His schedule may change and we remain in conversation."
workshop_format = ""
workshop_fee = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Ann"
last_name = "Craig"
title = "Director of Public Programs and Exhibitions"
institution = "University of Oregon Museum of Natural and Cultural History"
location = "Eugene, OR"
tel = "541-346-3116"
email = "acraig@uoregon.edu"
email2 = ""
is_mod = false
is_pres = true
justification = ""

[moderator]
first_name = "Lisa "
last_name = "Sasaki"
title = "Director"
institution = "Smithsonian Asian Pacific American Center"
location = "Washington DC"
tel = ""
email = "Lisa_sasaki@hotmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_pres = false
is_confirmed = true
justification = ""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Janeen Bryant and/or "
last_name = "Stacey Mann"
title = "Bryant: Community Engagement Specialist and Museum Consultant; Mann: Interpretive Strategist and Exhibitions Developer"
institution = "Consultancies: Bryant: Facilitate Movement Mann: Stacy Mann | Museumism"
location = ""
tel = ""
email = "Facilitatemovement@gmail.com"
email2 = "staceybmann@gmail.com"
is_confirmed = true
justification = "Bryant and Mann were co-presenters of the 2018 WMA pre-conference workshop The Empathetic Museum. They will participate via Skype or through a pre-recorded introduction to kick off the panel session."

[pres_2]
first_name = "Alison"
last_name = "Rossi"
title = "Director of Learning and Community Engagement"
institution = "Gilcrease Museum"
location = ""
tel = "918-596-2768"
email = "alison-rossi@utulsa.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "Rossi was also a participant in The Empathetic Museum workshop. The Gilcrease is an art and history museum with a unique organizational structure with relationships to City of Tulsa and the University of Tulsa. Rossi is a relatively new staff member charged with \"cultivating a new following for Gilcrease in a changing demographic\"."

[pres_3]
first_name = "Kristen"
last_name = "Mihalko"
title = "Senior Manager, Programs and Special Events"
institution = "Balboa Park Learning Institute"
location = ""
tel = "619-232-7502 ext. 1206"
email = "kristen.mihalko@bpcp.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = "Mihalko was a member of the Empathetic Museum Workshop in 2018 and was suggested by Rossi, Bryant, and Mann as the third panelist. Mihalko is working across several organizations in her role at Balboa Park to align equity and inclusion practices."

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = ""
+++
