+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP053"
sort_id = 162
timestamp = "2/15/2020 23:06:07"
form_email = "connect@masonbeellc.com"
session_title = "Digging Deeper: Transformative partnerships involving communities and museums"
session_desc = """How does a museum change when we invite communities to have a voice in our work? Our session will explore this question through stories of transformative museum-community partnerships. Each story will be told collaboratively by two people who know it well: one a museum professional and the other a community leader. The stories will focus on the firsthand experience of working together to impact exhibitions, programs, collections, and processes in profound, and often unexpected, ways."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "communityengagement"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """By sharing stories of museums fundamentally changing their practice through close community partnerships, we aim to inspire others to seek their own bold collaborations."""
session_objectives = """Participants will:  1. Understand the transformative power of community engagement based in meaningful, reciprocal collaboration. 2. Identify contexts that both support and challenge the creation of respectful, reciprocal partnerships.  3. Be able to imagine new ways their museum could partner and/or engage communities in meaningful ways."""
session_engagement = """Audience members will be invited to participate in four ways: 1. Actively listening to the stories. 2. Asking questions of the storytellers. 3. Participating in discussion to identify the actions and contexts that supported or challenged the partnerships and community engagement across the stories.  4. Working in small groups to imagine what meaningful collaboration could look like in their communities and institutions.  Resources include sticky notes, pens, and movable chairs."""
session_scalability = """All museums can benefit from deep partnerships with communities."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Events Planning, General Audience, Exhibit & Program Developers"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """It is important to include both museum professionals and community partners to tell these stories. For this reason, we would like to reduce the barriers for non-museum partners to including requesting that WMA allow them to present at no/low cost if they only attend this session.  It is also important to note that the proposed moderator, Kyrie Kellett, is an independent museum professional (consultant). She is proposing this session for the sole purpose of encouraging more museums/communities to share their examples of how they can work together to tell diverse stories and build meaningful relationships. She will not be promoting any of her own products or services through the session and none of the presenters are currently her clients or sharing projects that she worked on."""
theme_relationship = """For museums to continue forward, we must be relevant. This requires us to understand and reflect our communities. Deep partnerships help us build relationships to do this work while elucidating the stories, processes, and objects that help us become truly meaningful public spaces."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "pomaitoledo"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Kyrie"
last_name = "Kellett"
title = "Principal & Interpretive Planner"
institution = "Mason Bee Interpretive Planning"
location = "Portland"
tel = "5034197735"
email = "connect@masonbeellc.com"
email2 = "kyrie.kellett@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """I will moderate the session bringing together a variety of museum professionals and partners. I have done similar collaborative work, but have focused on inviting museums/partner pairs to tell their own stories from different types of museums and communities."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Ann"
last_name = "Craig"
title = "Director, Exhibitions and Programs"
institution = "Museum of Natural and Cultural History"
location = "Eugene, OR"
tel = "541-346-3116"
email = "acraig@uoregon.edu"
email2 = "acraig@uoregon.edu"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Ann will present with Gwen Carr of Oregon Black Pioneers to tell the story of adapting the Racing to Change exhibition in Eugene and the deep community engagement work that went into that project.  Both presenters are confirmed. There is not enough room to list all 6 presenters on the form, so I will include partner info here:  Gwen Carr, Board of Directors, Oregon Black Pioneers Salem, OR 503 949-5142 gwen@oregonblackpioneers.org"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Cheryl"
last_name = "Hartup"
title = "Curator of Academic Programs and Latin American and Caribbean Art"
institution = "Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art"
location = "Eugene, OR"
tel = "541-346-0949"
email = "chartup@uoregon.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Cheryl was the primary museum staff person from Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art working with Huerto de la Familia to collaboratively create a community mural, exhibition, and family event with/for the area's Hispanic community. Marissa Zarate will co-present the story. Both presenters are confirmed. Marissa Zarate, Executive Director, Huerto de la Familia/The Family Garden Eugene, OR 541-505-9569 marissa@huertodelafamilia.org"""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Dana"
last_name = "Whitelaw"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "High Desert Museum"
location = "Bend, OR"
tel = "(541) 382-4754"
email = "dwhitelaw@highdesertmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Dana has been a primary collaborator from the High Desert Museum working closely with the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs and Museum at Warm Springs on the reciprocal professional development project "Weaving Stories". Liz Wooley will co-present. Both presenters are confirmed. Liz Wooley, Executive Director, Museum at Warm Springs Warm Springs, OR (541) 553-3331 liz@museumatwarmsprings.org"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
How does a museum change when we invite communities to have a voice in our work? Our session will explore this question through stories of transformative museum-community partnerships. Each story will be told collaboratively by two people who know it well: one a museum professional and the other a community leader. The stories will focus on the firsthand experience of working together to impact exhibitions, programs, collections, and processes in profound, and often unexpected, ways.