+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP002"
sort_id = 117
timestamp = "1/30/2020 16:06:38"
form_email = "corinne@worldofspeed.org"
session_title = "'Is this thing working?' Evaluating your membership program"
session_desc = """When was the last time you evaluated your membership program? What should you even be looking at? This session will focus on four museums from very different backgrounds and will provide real-life examples of how to evaluate your membership program. Participants will have time to learn from each other and discuss what has worked and what has not in their own institutions."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "business"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """How museums of all sizes can incorporate best practices for our individual museums using the tools we already have"""
session_objectives = """1. Affirm that focusing on members and the membership program is time and resources well spent, or not! 2. Hear four different examples of membership programs, their strengths and weaknesses  3. Share and connect with other membership associates on topics around membership evaluation and changes made"""
session_engagement = """1. Break into small groups and discuss current issues in their membership programs. Resource needed: Markers, Giant sticky pads, post-its  2. Receive handouts to use in evaluating your own membership program"""
session_scalability = """The session will have practical applications for any size of museum, but will be most practical for small-medium sized orgs, or ones with a culturally specific audience."""
audience = "Development/Membership"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """This session would spend most of the time in smaller groups based on affinity discussing curated questions, 2-4 groups depending on the number of attendees. Each small group would be lead by one of the panelists to keep the conversations moving forward and on time.  Basic agenda: Introduction/housekeeping: 3 minutes; Brief explanation of four museums membership (PowerPoint with similar slides for context/comparison ) 6 minutes per museum (24 min total); Discussion #1: 15 minutes; Group Check-in (new topic or more time for old topic) 1 min; share-out and group discussion: 6 minutes (if continue on first topic, second share-out session will be increased to 12 minutes; Discussion #2: 15 min; share-out and group discussion: 6 minutes; Closing: 5 minutes. Possible conversation topics: (maybe some of these are better for an affinity happy hour?)  • How to evaluate your membership program (worksheet) o Nuts and bolts o How to calculate numbers like renewal statistics, membership conversion from attendance, etc • Changes we made and how they turned out • Do you love your renewal process? o What do you do? o How is it working for you? o How much time does it take? • Hopey-Dreamy: How to plan to achieve your next membership goal • What evaluations do you do and which do you wish you did? • Is membership philanthropy or transactional? • Membership benefits o What do you offer at what price? o How do you calculate tax deductibility? o How to add/take benefits away • Member engagement – you got a great thing you do? o How’s your email program working out for you? It would be nice to also have a collateral sharing table for membership examples, and we could encourage attendees to bring a few pieces to share if they would like (maybe on a table someplace outside of the session? They have a collateral sharing table in the hall at the American Museum Membership Conference where folks pick up and leave collateral just to share examples.)"""
theme_relationship = """As philanthropic dollars shrink, engaging our members is the way forward for all museums. By using best practices for our own institutions, we can keep our members engaged using less time and money."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "arielweintraub"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Corinne"
last_name = "Rupp"
title = "Membership Manager"
institution = "World of Speed Motorsports Museum"
location = "Wilsonville, OR "
tel = "503.563.6436"
email = "corinne@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = "Corinne.rupp@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Moderating and Presenting"""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Corinne"
last_name = "Rupp"
title = "Membership Manager"
institution = "World of Speed Motorsports Museum"
location = "Wilsonville"
tel = "503.563.6436"
email = "corinne@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = "Corinne.rupp@gmail.com"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Present on changes made to membership program; why made, how rolled out, results to date"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Pomai "
last_name = "Toledo"
title = "Director of Development and Communications"
institution = "The Friends of Iolani Palace"
location = "Honolulu, Hawaii"
tel = "808.522.0827"
email = "members@iolanipalace.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Present on how keeping the membership program personal encourages members to become donors"""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Dulce"
last_name = "Kerstring-Lark "
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Latah County Historical Society"
location = "Moscow, Idaho"
tel = "202.882.1004"
email = "dkersting@latah.id.us"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Present on how to build a membership program when your museum is free"""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Keith "
last_name = "Baich "
title = "Director of Sales and Guest Services"
institution = "OMSI"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503.797.4641"
email = "KBaich@omsi.edu"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Present on museums who put membership as a transactional benefit instead of philanthropic endeavor"""
+++
When was the last time you evaluated your membership program? What should you even be looking at? This session will focus on four museums from very different backgrounds and will provide real-life examples of how to evaluate your membership program. Participants will have time to learn from each other and discuss what has worked and what has not in their own institutions.
