+++
ID = "WMA2019_SP26"
timestamp = "2019-02-14T18:53:54.484Z"
form_email = "mary@museumtrustee.org"
session_title = "Good Trustee/Bad Trustee: Recruit, Engage & Empower the Best Leaders for your Museum’s Board"
session_desc = "Building and maintaining an efficient, agile, and committed board requires strategic thought as well as long-term investment of time and energy. Learn how the board and staff can find and secure strong leaders for your Board, as well as how to keep them engaged as vocal advocates for your museum’s mission. Learn tips and strategies from experienced current and former museum board chairs who have played an active role in strengthening and sustaining a tenacious board. "
session_track = "THIS IS ARBITRARY TEST DATA"
session_type = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_unique = "The session is geared specifically toward trustees and their unique position in securing a strong foundation for their museums, including strategies for collaborating with staff. "
session_objectives = "Participants will learn strategies for reviewing their current board composition and identifying their needs for new trustees, as well as how to recruit diverse and effective board members to meet those needs. \n\nPanelists will convey traits of good trustees: mission driven, participates in board and committee meetings, advocates of the museum, gives or gets, stays up to date with news in the field, things strategically.\n\nStaff in attendance will learn how they can support board recruitment by identifying repeat donors or notable attendees and bringing those individuals to the Director’s attention, as well as how senior staff can develop relationships with promising visitors and patrons. \n\nBoard and staff members will learn how to establish and follow clear guidelines regarding their roles and responsibilities for recruiting, and how to build effective partnerships.  \n\nParticipants will also be presented with proven structures for board orientation programs, which create responsible and invested leaders. These orientation programs are effective in on-boarding new trustees as well as re-energizing existing trustees.\n\nParticipants will discuss strategies for maintaining long term-engagement from their trustees. This conversation will include how to measure and evaluate board success. Tips for managing underperforming or difficult personalities off the board will also be shared. The use of written policies and procedures as guiding documents to support healthy functioning will be encouraged. \n\nEach of these objectives will allow attendees to walk away with a clear knowledge of the steps they will take to build and strengthen their board. Discussion time with panelists will ensure that specific challenges are addressed."
engagement = "A 60 minute discussion with 15 minutes reserved for Q&A. The session will not employ a slideshow presentation and will utilize an open structure allowing attendees to ask questions throughout as needed, with the Q&A section at the end of the presentation allowing for questions that do not naturally come up during the main conversation.\n\nHandouts include copies of MTA’s board orientation table of contents and excerpts from the Building Museum Boards board profile template. \n"
audience = "Development/Membership, General Audience, Trustees"
level = "Senior Level"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "An invested and enthusiastic board is the foundation for all types of museum engagement; a committed board is interested in and responsive to the needs of their community and audience. Ensuring that the best leaders for your museum board are in place will lead to activities that are mission driven and effective. Having the knowledge and resources to create a strong board is a vital part of making the board the foundation of a successful museum.  "
theme_comments = "We would prefer not to merge with another session. MTA is currently undergoing a search for our new CEO, so it is likely that Mary will be replaced as moderator by her successor. "
workshop_format = ""
workshop_fee = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Mary"
last_name = "Baily Wieler"
title = "President"
institution = "Museum Trustee Association"
location = "Baltimore, MD"
tel = "410-402-0954"
email = "mary@museumtrustee.org"
email2 = "hannah@museumtrustee.org"
is_mod = "No"
is_pres = "Yes"
justification = "Ms. Baily Wieler is an experienced board member in her roles at the Walters Art Museum and Park City Museum as well as recruiter of trustees as President of the Museum Trustee Association for the past five years. Mary’s strong relationships with the presenters in this session will make her a strong moderator for this conversation."

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = ""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Lee"
last_name = "Peterson"
title = "Past Chairman, Current Trustee"
institution = "Heard Museum"
location = "Phoenix, AZ"
tel = "602-228-1180"
email = "lee.w.peterson@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "Yes"
justification = "In his roles as past Chairman of the Heard Museum and current Chairman of the Museum Trustee Association, Mr. Peterson has played an active role in trustee recruitment for two very different organizations – an art museum and a museum service organization. Lee is experienced in recruiting strong trustees and building relationships in order to see opportunities for upward movement within a board as well as using new recruits to fill gaps. His term as Interim Director of the Heard Museum provides him with an understanding of both sides of museum operations."

[pres_2]
first_name = "Maureen"
last_name = "Pecht King"
title = "Past Chairman, Current Trustee"
institution = "Mingei International Museum"
location = "San Diego, CA"
tel = "858-354-4488"
email = "mking42@me.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "No"
justification = "Ms. King’s 20+ years of experience at the Mingei International Museum as a development staff member, past Chairman, and current Co-Chairman of the museum’s Capital Campaign have provided her with a broad understanding of a museum’s goals. This understanding, as well as her long-term involvement, have given her a keen awareness of the steps needed to identify and foster an engaged and productive trustee. Maureen is an excellent example of a good trustee and a vocal advocate for her museum’s efforts. \n\n"

[pres_3]
first_name = "Barron"
last_name = "Collier"
title = "Chairman"
institution = "Buffalo Bill Center of the West"
location = "Cody, WY"
tel = "307-587-6275"
email = "bcollierii@me.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "No"
justification = "Through his involvement in both museum and education association boards, Mr. Collier has built a strong awareness of what constitutes good board culture. Barron is able to identify the kinds of people who can be positive or negative influences on a board, and has strong skills with assessing, evaluating, and setting goals for museum trustees. Barron recently oversaw an executive search at the Buffalo Bill Center of the West and is experiencing first hand the steps and skills needed for building strong relationships from the ground up. "

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = ""
+++
