+++
ID = "WMA2019_SP19R"
timestamp = "2019-02-21T14:43:45.363Z"
form_email = ""
session_title = "Engagement through NAGPRA Practice: Methods, Strategies, and Common Goals for Tribes and Museums"
session_title_OLD = "Engagement through NAGPRA Practice: Methods, Strategies, and Common Goals for Tribes and Museums"
session_desc = "The Columbia Plateau serves as a model for the power of collaboration between tribes and tribes and “museums” under NAGPRA. Tribal and museum practitioners come together to engage and find common goals in the practice of repatriation. Capacity of implementation is increased and misunderstanding is decreased in cultivating this community of practice. Nearing the 30 year anniversary of legislation NAGPRA has evolved towards an increase in partnerships with a focus on understanding regional histories."
session_track = ""
session_type = ""
session_unique = "This session speaks to unspoken tribal and museum practices of NAGPRA implementation. It reveals where convergence occurs bringing together what appears to be diverse positions."
session_objectives = "Collaboration and partnership is the new norm since the NAGPRA\n  legislation nearly 30 years ago. Partnerships between tribes and tribes and\n  museums have advanced methods and strategies to accomplish the\n  requirements and intentions of repatriation. This work speaks to the\n  evolution of practice as reciprocal and mutual. On the Columbia Plateau the\n  focus is towards respecting tribal concerns and understanding regional\n  histories.\n   \n  The Columbia Plateau serves as a community of practice model to\n  NAGPRA tribal and museum specialists from across the United States. Repatriation\n  requires people to cooperate with each other to implement the law. The Columbia\n  Plateau tribes work together informed by traditional teachings. These\n  teachings guide practical ways of handling and caring for the ancestors and\n  ourselves, keeping a good heart while dealing with issues that often bring\n  modern “tribes” into conflict.\nA community of practice is cultivated between tribes and “museums” to support NAGPRA implementation by increasing capacity and decreasing\nmisunderstandings. The Columbia Plateau tribes collaborate with Central Washington University to create a visible, participatory process where the tribes are at the table and in the lab from inventory to cultural affiliation. NAGPRA cultural affiliation requires a local and regional history. This working relationship has led to a joint project that brings data recovered from archaeological reports, osteometric studies, private collector’s journals, and museum accession records together in a large data set that supports cultural affiliation on the Plateau. \n\nThese presentations address practice, engagement, and capacity. Returning ancestors back to the earth requires spiritual and practical intentions. \n"
engagement = "This will be a single session panel with three speakers in a standard format concluding with time for audience discussion and questions. Tribal and museum practitioners will present methods and strategies to accomplish the requirements and intentions of NAGPRA revealing inclusive, positive and caring partnerships. These practices serve as a model for cultivating a larger community of practice that increases capacity and decreases misunderstanding as tribes and museums engage on a regional level."
audience = "The intended audience is for museum practitioners at all levels working with NAGPRA and/or engaging with Native American tribes."
level = "All"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Museums have become more inclusive and diverse since the passage of NAGPRA. As museums address the requirements of the law they have adapted to working with tribes in its implementation. This session provides awareness on how museums and tribes engage in order to meet diverse goals. It is through these unconventional partnerships that common ground can be found and opportunities for collaboration beyond NAGPRA can occur."
theme_comments = ""
workshop_format = ""
workshop_fee = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Angela J. "
last_name = "Neller"
title = "Curator"
institution = "Wanapum Heritage Center"
location = "Beverly, Washington"
tel = "509-766-3468"
email = "Anelle1@gcpud.org"
email2 = "hiilani@fairpoint.net"
is_mod = false
is_pres = true
justification = "Angela Neller provides NAGPRA technical support to the Wanapum Band of Priest Rapids. She brings both museum and tribal perspectives to her work engaging with tribes and museums in implementing NAGPRA and other repatriation laws. As a member of NAGPRA’s Community of Practice initiative, Angela will speak to the development of this network for museum professionals engaged in implementing the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act. This community of practice will bring together individuals with all levels of NAGPRA expertise to connect, collaborate, and increase capacity."

[moderator]
first_name = "James "
last_name = "Pepper Henry"
title = "Executive Director/CEO"
institution = "The American Indian Cultural Center and Museum"
location = "Oklahoma City, OK"
tel = "(918) 978-1877"
email = "jph@aiccf.org"
email2 = ""
is_pres = false
is_confirmed = false
justification = "Recommended by the WMA Program Committee. He has extensive experience in tribal issues, museums and repatriation."

[pres_1]
first_name = "Jacqueline M. "
last_name = "Cook"
title = "Repatriation Specialist"
institution = "Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation History/Archaeology Program"
location = ""
tel = "509-634-2635"
email = "Jackie.Cook@colvilletribes.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "Jackie Cook is guided by the traditional teachings of the Columbia Plateau tribes in her repatriation work. She will discuss the spiritual and practical aspects of repatriation under those teachings. Repatriation requires people to cooperate with each other to accomplish the requirements and intentions of the NAGPRA. The Columbia Plateau tribes and bands work together in repatriating their ancestors in a manner that avoids strife, discord, and conflict when dealing with human remains. Returning our ancestors back to the earth requires keeping a good heart"

[pres_2]
first_name = "Lourdes "
last_name = "Henebry-DeLeon"
title = "NAGPRA Program Director and Professor"
institution = "Central Washington University Department of Anthropology"
location = ""
tel = "509-963-2671"
email = "Lourdes.Henebry-DeLeon@cwu.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "Lourdes Henebry-Deleon has 20+ years of NAGPRA experience. During that time, Lourdes and the Columbia Plateau tribes created a visible, participatory NAGPRA process. Tribes are at the table and in the lab from inventory to cultural affiliation. In her role as an osteologists/bio- archeologist, the Columbia Plateau tribes consider her a “resource” inviting her to participate in tribal consultations with other agencies. Her relationships with the Columbia Plateau tribes was born from the NAGPRA, matured when she opened the “door”, and aged into a robust relationship collaborating on tribal driven research."

[pres_3]
first_name = "Angela J. Neller"
last_name = "Neller"
title = "Curator"
institution = "Wanapum Heritage Center"
location = ""
tel = "509-766-3468"
email = "Anelle1@gcpud.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "Angela Neller provides NAGPRA technical support to the Wanapum Band of Priest Rapids. She brings both museum and tribal perspectives to her work engaging with tribes and museums in implementing NAGPRA and other repatriation laws. As a member of NAGPRA’s Community of Practice initiative, Angela will speak to the development of this network for museum professionals engaged in implementing the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act. This community of practice will bring together individuals with all levels of NAGPRA expertise to connect, collaborate, and increase capacity."

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = ""
+++
