+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP031"
sort_id = 156
timestamp = "2/14/2020 18:23:06"
form_email = "brendaab@tempe.gov"
session_title = "Museums Rock! The Value of Live Music in Museums"
session_desc = """How do you make museums cool? Include music! Discover strategies for building and reaching new audiences by incorporating music in exhibits, programming and collecting practices. Ranging from the earliest sounds to Hip Hop, music connects people in many ways and can be a strategy to engage a diverse array of community members in your museum. Start planning how you can incorporate music at this session."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "visitorexperience"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Live music can be a way to make the museum more accessible to non-typical audiences. Finding ways to tie musical performance programs to the mission and work of the museum makes it more meaningful. These presenters will demonstrate how that is possible."""
session_objectives = """Using music, find new ways of engaging with community, both traditional and new audiences.  Learn how to connect with community partners and musicians to find inexpensive ways of offering live music. Learn strategies for connecting music programming to the mission of the museum and to other focus areas such as education, collections and volunteers."""
session_engagement = """The session will open with live music; audience members will be provided with planning tools and a resource sheet to begin connecting their museum, mission and programming with live music opportunities; the audience will be given ample time to interact with panelists and the moderator who represent collections, exhibitions, programming and community."""
session_scalability = """The presenters are from small, mid-sized and large organizations who know how to work on shoe-string budgets and in partnership with others. Collaborating with community is key to success; strategies will be shared."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Events Planning, General Audience, Programming, Education, Administrators"
level = "Student, Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This session will suggest best practices to propel your museum forward. It will provide strategies to help elevate your museum within your community. It shows ways of connecting to new and diverse audiences."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Fishbowl"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "sethmargolis"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Brenda"
last_name = "Abney"
title = "Director"
institution = "Tempe Arts & Culture"
location = "Tempe, Arizona"
tel = "480-350-5105"
email = "brendaab@tempe.gov"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """N/A"""

[moderator]
first_name = "Josh"
last_name = "Roffler"
title = "Senior Curator"
institution = "Tempe History Museum"
location = "Tempe, Arizona"
tel = "480-350-5176"
email = "joshua_roffler@tempe.gov"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Josh Roffler has been an integral part of the team that has brought music to the museum, not only in programming, but also in collecting and exhibits. He regularly presents and facilitates meetings and has a depth of knowledge in the topic that will be useful when guiding the conversation."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Seth"
last_name = "Margolis"
title = "Director of Education"
institution = "The Museum of Flight"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206-768-7116"
email = "smargolis@museumofflight.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Seth Margolis leads the Museum of Flight Public Programs team who worked with a musical artist management collective to present concerts in non-traditional spaces within the Museum. The concerts are mission-aligned as they were intended to bring a new demographic to the Museum, show the institution in a new way, and act as a proof of concept for possible new initiatives."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Dan"
last_name = "Miller"
title = "Senior Curator of Exhibitions (and Programs)"
institution = "Tempe History Museum"
location = "Tempe, Arizona"
tel = "480-350-5115"
email = "dan_miller@tempe.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Dan Miller works with musicians and community partners to coordinate the music performance series for a small to mid-sized museum. He is responsible for production and selection; chairs a program committee of staff and community members, and incorporates music in exhibitions as part of team."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "David"
last_name = "Coniglio"
title = "Head Drum Instructor"
institution = "School of Rock Portland"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503-231-2945"
email = "dconilgio@schoolofrock.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """School of Rock is a community partner that can give insight on how to work together to bring musicians and programming to the museum in an affordable way. The musicians, in this case, are generally pre-teen and teen. This also engages the families, young people and musician/educators in ways that can broaden audiences and forge community partnerships. The School of Rock is willing to bring their house band and a performer to open the session in addition to speaking on partnership opportunities."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
How do you make museums cool? Include music! Discover strategies for building and reaching new audiences by incorporating music in exhibits, programming and collecting practices. Ranging from the earliest sounds to Hip Hop, music connects people in many ways and can be a strategy to engage a diverse array of community members in your museum. Start planning how you can incorporate music at this session.