+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP067"
sort_id = 163
timestamp = "2/18/2020 11:31:37"
form_email = "lydia.heins@evergreenmuseum.org"
session_title = "Times They Are A’Changing: Building a Shared Vision and Dealing with Change in Rural Museums"
session_desc = """This session will focus on the changes rural museums face and how to create a strong mission, vision, core values, and strategic goals that promote a shared organizational focus. Together, these discussions create an environment that fosters a sense of community among small and rural museums in the region and helps museum professionals determine a rural museum’s role in its wider community."""
session_track = ""
session_track_id = "business"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session will focus on rural and small museums because their challenges are unique and oben overlooked in large scale forums."""
session_objectives = """1. Discuss changes rural museums are seeing/experiencing, i.e. changing demographic landscapes, or resource limitations, and uncover solutions rural museums have instituted to address these changes. We also aim to assess their success or lack thereof. 2. Highlight and practice simple methods for creating mission, vision, and core values. Take away tools to refine or create foundational elements for their own organization. 3. Inspire rural museums to tackle their local obstacles through sharing success stories and learning experiences."""
session_engagement = """This will be a panel presentation with interactive elements as presenters lead attendees through the creation of sample elements for both imagined organizations and for attendees’ actual institutions. Coupled with a Q&A session, we allow more space for different types of institutions to feel a part of the museum community. This space is particularly important for institutions that may feel alone in the problems they face."""
session_scalability = """This session is open to rural museums of all sizes and types. The issues that rural museums face are not unique to one geographic area or even one type of institution. Formulating missions, visions, goals, and core values is a skill that translates across regions and subject matters."""
audience = "General Audience"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """Rural Museums exist in an environment with increasingly limited resources. Fostering efficient and thoughtful leadership while addressing changes in rural areas is essential to sustainability. This session will help small organizations maintain strong leadership that can support transformational change in the future."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "lynnfederleorr"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Lydia"
last_name = "Heins"
title = "Collections Manager"
institution = "Evergreen Aviation and Space Museum"
location = "McMinnville, OR"
tel = ""
email = "lydia.heins@evergreenmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """Ms. Heins is the moderator because of her inspiration to have this discussion. Her inspiration started with EASM going through tough financial times and how those hardships effected their operations. As the museum begins to tackle drastic fundamental changes, she wanted to hear how other institutions in rural areas cope in similar situations, particularly without the resources that a big city offers. Due to her genuine interest in discovering how rural museums cope with change, Ms. Heins will be able to direct the session’s discussion to answer some of the central questions that are presented."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Kathryn"
last_name = "Sinor"
title = "Education Director"
institution = "Evergreen Aviation and Space Museum"
location = "McMinnville, OR"
tel = ""
email = "kathryn.sinor@evergreenmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Ms. Sinor is a presenter because of her status as a pusher for change in the EASM. As Education Director, she has the ability to shape the curriculum of the museum’s programs and has placed DEAI goals as the top priority. Also, through working at a mid-size institution in a rural area, Ms. Sinor is familiar with the challenges of instituting such changes in rural areas."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Tim"
last_name = "Glenn"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "John Wesley Powell River History Museum"
location = "Green River, UT"
tel = ""
email = "timothy.aaron.glenn@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Mr. Glenn is a presenter because of his previously demonstrated interest in issues rural museums face and wantng to create more of a network to solve those issues. After stepping in as Executive Director for an institution in need of change, Mr. Glenn values the unique qualities of his museum and how the rural locale presents unique challenges as well. As a contributor to this discussion of change in rural museums, Mr. Glenn can draw on his experiences of leadership and how they might apply to other rural organizations."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Jessica"
last_name = "Ortiz"
title = "Museum Services Manager"
institution = "Utah Division of Arts and Museums"
location = "Salt Lake City, UT"
tel = ""
email = "jenniferortiz@utah.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Ms. Ortiz has a wealth of experience working to help museums of varying size build capacity. Her experience is relevant to museums both large and small. She’ll offer unique perspectives on a variety of common issues that arrives from first-hand knowledge of museums throughout the state."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
This session will focus on the changes rural museums face and how to create a strong mission, vision, core values, and strategic goals that promote a shared organizational focus. Together, these discussions create an environment that fosters a sense of community among small and rural museums in the region and helps museum professionals determine a rural museum’s role in its wider community.