+++
ID = "WMA2019_SP30R"
timestamp = "2019-02-21T14:43:45.363Z"
form_email = ""
session_title = "Leading Change Initiatives (It's all about engaging people!)"
session_desc = ""
session_track = "Leading change – whether it's a new space, initiative, or even a mindset – can evoke excitement, resistance, or even fear. Whether you've come to WMA with changes in mind, or you're leaving with new ideas to implement when you get home, you'll benefit from this discussion on how to engage a team through careful listening and observation. And, you'll get to talk with some of the most successful museum change makers who inspire enthusiasm and cooperation"
session_type = "Round Table"
session_unique = "The session will be innovative because we will investigate the influence of human resources*a topic not often provided at WMA."
session_objectives = "Takeaways: Participants in this session will: 1.) Be introduced to established leadership and organizational models and identify at least one as a good fit for their museum/team: -Bolman and Deal's Four Frames from the classic leadership text Reframing Organizations, first published 25 years ago and now in its 6th edition. -Influencer model and the sources of influence from Influencer: The New Science of Leading Change, 2013. -Creating Magic: Ten Common Sense Leadership Strategies from a Life at Disney, Lee Cockerell, 2008. -Others or substitutes to be determined with further consultation with the panel (these will be provided as handouts) 2.) Learn strategies to introduce and implement change at home -Instead of complaining about board/staff/director/volunteers – use strategies that sew positive thinking and resolve potential concerns before they arise. -Participants will have awareness of resources available to them to outline plans for introducing change 3.) Draft strategies with a small group break out and receive input from some of the best positive-thinking change-makers in the field -participants will have the opportunity to interact with leading directors who they may not otherwise have access to -participants will connect with one another and have the opportunity to stay connected after the session through a list-serv or email exchange Outcomes: -Learn about established leadership and change models (it's not a blank slate!) -Identify a model that seems like a good fit with your museum/team -Draft an outline for planning and implementing a change in your museum. If you don't have a \"change challenge,\" you will work in a small group to provide feedback with others. -Following the session, participants have the option to join a list-serv with others in the session. -Overall, we hope to increase competence among WMA professionals in human resource management "
engagement = "Single Session: Round Table – \"Meet the Press\" style 1.) Introduction and Icebreaker \"What kind of organization are you?\" Presentation, small group discussion, and share. Consider \"change challenge.\" 2.) Ann interviews panelists At least four planned questions, with opportunity for audience to ask or text questions to Ann. 3.) Change Challenge Small group discussion. Volunteers offer change challenge to panel and full room. Use peer advising model. 4.) Round Up – summary and resources \"to go\""
audience = "Any level of museum employee or volunteer looking to influence change."
level = "This session should be encouraged for all levels of staff and leadership in all areas and types of museums."
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Museums are always considering how to better engage audiences, but we often forget about leading that engagement from within – our volunteers, staff, and leadership. These internal groups are our \"allies\" – looking to fulfill a common mission. Anyone – not just directors – can engage a team toward cooperation and success in new initiatives."
theme_comments = "Dana Whitelaw and I discussed the opportunity to combine our sessions, but agreed that the topics and format were distinct from one another. Micah Parzan is listed on both sessions. He and Dana were going to discuss his involvement in both or one or the other. We are happy to take direction from the program committee on this issue."
workshop_format = ""
workshop_fee = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Ann "
last_name = "Craig"
title = "Director of Public Programs and Exhibitions"
institution = "University of Oregon Museum of Natural and Cultural History"
location = "Eugene, OR"
tel = "541-346-3116"
email = "acraig@uoregon.edu"
email2 = ""
is_mod = true
is_pres = ""
justification = "I want to moderate this session toward positive, pro-active conversations, with the foundational belief that all people want to \"do right\" and succeed, this effort is aimed at curtailing negative or complaining discussions about one's board/staff/director/etc. I have selected leaders and \"middle managers\" who demonstrate a positive outlook on employee development and have participated in or lead radical changes in their institutions."

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = ""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Julie"
last_name = "Decker"
title = "Director/CEO"
institution = "Anchorage Museum"
location = ""
tel = "907-317-6616"
email = "jdecker@anchoragemuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "Julie Decker has transformed the Anchorage Museum into a place-based, multi-disciplinary museum that has added capacity to its community. The organization went through internal change in terms of organizational change, from job descriptions to programs and exhibitions."

[pres_2]
first_name = "Liz "
last_name = "Hobson"
title = "Museum Administrator"
institution = "Idaho State Historical Society"
location = ""
tel = "208-780-5186"
email = "Liz.Hobson@ishs.idaho.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "The Idaho History Museum was closed for 4 ½ years undergoing a massive renovation. Toward the close of the project, the Museum Administrator retired after 30 years and Hobson was hired 6 months before opening. The museum is now open with all new exhibits*a change for both the staff and the community. With new leadership and many new staff members, the Idaho History Museum has experienced significant changes and Hobson is well-suited to describe ongoing successes and challenges."

[pres_3]
first_name = "Michael "
last_name = "Fiegenschuh"
title = "Senior Associate, Architect"
institution = "Mithun"
location = ""
tel = "206-971-5668"
email = "michaelf@mithun.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "Coming from the for-profit consulting world, Michael brings a unique perspective to the conversation on creating institutional change. Building off of his session from last year (Trending Now: Exodus from the Museum Field), Michael will discuss how Mithun has approached a widespread organizational change over the past 10-20 years and how museums might learn from this transformation. We will also look at lessons learned from these efforts and how museums and other organizations might evolve in the future."

[pres_4]
first_name = "Micah"
last_name = "Parzen"
title = "Chief Executive Officer"
institution = "San Diego Museum of Man"
location = ""
tel = "619-239-2001"
email = "mparzen@museumofman.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "Having never worked a day in a museum, Parzen joined the San Diego Museum of Man as CEO in 2010 with a steep learning curve. In his short tenure, the museum has transformed from a deeply distressed organization into a museum that is thriving inside and out. This success rests on the extraordinary team Parzen has built.(Adapted from Parzen's bio found at https://www.museumofman.org/leadership/)"
+++
