+++
ID = "WMA2019_SP58R"
timestamp = "2019-02-21T14:43:45.363Z"
form_email = ""
session_title = "Beyond Storage – Innovative Collection Engagement Models"
session_desc = "How can museums rethink storage? Can storage become an active and engaging place?  What are the pros and cons to an offsite center run by your institution, vs. an outside art handling/storage company or private contractor? Risk factors and unspoken costs? Panelists will present lessons learned from building new, innovative collections storage facilities that serve as potential models for other museums to address collections engagement and access goals"
session_track = ""
session_type = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_unique = "WMA has not addressed this emerging trend as such, and some innovative concepts & viewable storage alternatives have taken the museum world by storm."
session_objectives = " 1)     \n  Explore the reasons for moving from a traditional collections storage\n  model to a center open to researchers and/or the public.\n  2)     \n  Examine how offsite resource & accessible storage centers may\n  promote greater collaboration between curators, conservators, and staff.\n  3)     \n  Give museums of different types and sizes a framework to evaluate\n  whether an internally-run off-site resource center might be a better or worse\n  solution than outsourcing those functions.\n  4)     \n  Share lessons learned from those who have created and run collections\n  centers with access to the public, as well as revenue potential for unused\n  space.\n  \nSpark discussion around the potential of a collaborative model of resource facility."
engagement = "Three resource center panelists will share the story behind their facility’s development, including funding sources, rationale, and objectives. Different models and levels of public access will be discussed. They will also take us through average operational costs, staffing, and what makes their specific solution unique. They will end with a look-back to see whether the center has performed in the way that they had hoped, and/or whether it surprised them in any ways (positive or negative)."
audience = "All museums staff, but of particular interest to museum leadership, operations, curators, conservators."
level = "Any"
other_comments = ""
theme_relationship = "Often less thank 5% of a museum collection is on exhibit at any given time, and traditional off-site storage can present impediments to curators, staff, and the public engaging with many museums’ greatest resource. Enter the resource center model. This emerging trend may offer a model for greater community and/or staff engagement with the entire collection."
theme_comments = "Dafna or Bart from MATT Construction will facilitate\n  and frame the dialogue (and have resources available for cost implications of\n  such construction).  Three confirmed\n  panelists will present as follows:\n   \n  1)     \n  Rachel Faust, Manager of Artist’s Initiative, SFMOMA’s resource center\n  (confirmed)\n  2)     \n  LaLena Lewark, Sr. Director, Collections & Conservation, The Autry\n  Museum & Resource Center (confirmed)\n  \n Roberta Frey Gilboe, former Registrar, Cranbrook Center for\nCollections & Research (confirmed)"
workshop_format = ""
workshop_fee = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Dafna"
last_name = "Kaplan"
title = "Strategic Innovation & Construction Technology"
institution = "MATT Construction"
location = "Los Angeles, CA and Redwood Shores, CA"
tel = "310-245-0287"
email = "Dkaplan@mattconstruction.com"
email2 = "dzilafro@gmail.com"
is_mod = true
is_pres = false
justification = ""

[moderator]
first_name = "Bart"
last_name = "Shively"
title = "Vice President"
institution = "MATT Construction"
location = "Los Angeles, CA/Redwood Shores, CA"
tel = "562-903-2277"
email = "Blshively@mattconstruction.com"
email2 = ""
is_pres = false
is_confirmed = true
justification = "MATT Construction has built storage facilities both onsite and off for museums over two decades. As one of the company’s leading museum construction executives, Bart has a perspective on the community as a whole, and where trends seem to be going, both technologically and organizationally. He can frame macro questions from an outside-looking-in viewpoint, and a feasibility perspective."

[pres_1]
first_name = "Rachel"
last_name = "Faust"
title = "Manager of Artist Initiative"
institution = "San Francisco Museum of Modern Art"
location = ""
tel = "415-538-2682"
email = "rfaust@sfmoma.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "Rachel was the founding head of the resource center that SFMOMA built in conjunction with their large campus overhaul project. She can articulate the reasons behind SFMOMA’s decision, as well as the operational functions of the center. Rachel also has done extensive research on resource center models internationally and brings a broad perspective to the discussion."

[pres_2]
first_name = "LaLena"
last_name = "Lewark"
title = "Sr. Director, Collections and Conservation"
institution = "Autry Museum of the American West"
location = ""
tel = "323-495-4220"
email = "llewark@theautry.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "The Autry recently completed construction on a different model of Resource Center as an outgrowth of their merger with the Southwest Museum, which quadrupled that institution’s collection overnight. The facility serves as a research, collections care, and education facility, serving a multitude of stakeholders, and will open to the public in 2019."

[pres_3]
first_name = "Roberta"
last_name = "Frey Gilboe"
title = "Chief Registrar"
institution = "U of Michigan Museum of Art (former Registrar, Cranbrook Center for Collections & Research)"
location = ""
tel = "734-764-1178"
email = "rgilboe@umich.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = true
justification = "From 2007-2011, Cranbrook Art Museum underwent a complete renovation, in to include a new storage facility for the collection. In the course of designing the storage annex, the staff and design team re-envisioned and repurposed the project as a resource center, open to the public and academic world for research. Roberta was intimately involved in the planning of the project through that evolution, and is now using lessons learned to consider options for her current institution, the University of Michigan Museum of Art."

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = ""
+++
