+++
ID = "WMA2023_307"
last_modified = "2023-04-07T23:50:09.000Z"
session_title = "How Rewarding is Risk? Play, Risk-Taking, and Challenges in Museums"
session_track_id = "Visitor Experience,Community Engagement"
round_number = "Round 1"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Often our conversations about risk involve liability and risks to the institution. Talking about risk for visitors can feel risky in itself! But it’s important!"""
session_objectives = """1. Discover the various types of risk taking and decision making that are part of learning – physical, as well as social, emotional, intellectual and creative. 

2. Examine your own museum’s philosophy about risk-taking as a learning strategy, and discuss different philosophies with your peers. Do you agree that by encouraging (risky) play and learning, we can/should help visitors become better decision-makers, and more confident, resilient world citizens?

3. Explore creative ways to talk to board members, visitors, staff and design teams about risk in your exhibits and programs"""
session_engagement = """·      Each attendee will find a small, thought-provoking object on their chair, to spark the first conversation about how different people feel about risk. 
·      A facilitated group discussion will explore the difference between “high stakes” and “high risk,” and what museums can do to lower the stakes for risky activities. 
·      Team will lead a 10-minute activity encouraging attendees to think creatively about risk and learning, comparing notes with tablemates"""
session_scalability = """Museums of different types and sizes have exhibits and programs that benefit from a discussion of how much risk visitors are asked to take. It may be a personal/emotional risk to deal with a difficult topic, or taking a risk and doing something creative that other people will see. We will be sure to find out who is “in the room,” so that the scale and type of museum represented can be considered in our session. 

- please note that the "other" in the above question would be EXHIBITS AND PROGRAMS STAFF / LEADERSHIP
"""
audience = [ "curators","facilities","marketing","events","other" ]
level = [ "alllevels" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """"""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [  ]
submission_year = "2023"

[submitter]
first_name = "Alissa"
last_name = "Rupp"
title = "Principal, Museum Design"
institution = "FRAME | Integrative Design Strategies"
location = "Seattle"
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """"""

[moderator]
first_name = "Alissa"
last_name = "Rupp"
title = "Principal Museum Designer"
institution = "FRAME | Integrative Design Strategies"
location = "Seattle WA"
tel = ""
email = "alissa@FrameDesignStrategies.com"
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Putter"
last_name = "Bert"
title = "President/CEO"
institution = "KidsQuest Children's Museum"
location = "Bellevue, WA"
tel = ""
email = "putter@kidsquestmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Sunny"
last_name = "Spicer"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Oregon Center for Creative Learning/ The Children's Museum of Southern Oregon"
location = "Medford OR"
tel = ""
email = "sunny@tcmso.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """"""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Stephanie"
last_name = "Arduini"
title = "Formerly: Deputy Director, The Civil War Museum (will present based in part on this experience)"
institution = "Currently: Executive Director, Seattle Children’s Museum"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = ""
email = "stephanie.a@seattlechildrensmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
How important is risk-taking in learning, developing skills, and building emotional intelligence? Can museums encourage visitors to assess and take risks responsibly? Many exhibits help visitors consider their decisions, and the risks they are willing to take. Whether the challenge is physical, creative, intellectual, social or emotional, exhibits and programs present safe spaces for new ideas and skills. This session will feature environments where visitors feel safe while encountering challenges and evaluating their risk.
