+++
ID = "WMA2025_466"
last_modified = "2025-03-21T15:56:10.000Z"
session_title = "Come as you Are: A discussion among emerging, mid-, and late-career museum professionals "
session_track_id = "Leadership & Career Path"
round_number = "Round 1"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session is a combination of a professional development workshop and a roundtable discussion, and creates space to redefine professional success."""
session_objectives = """This session highlights that there is no single, correct path to a successful career. Participants will leave with heightened pride and respect for their own past accomplishments and a positive outlook on their present and future opportunities. Participants will understand that success is malleable and complex, and each person’s journey cannot be simplified into a category. This session is especially designed for anyone seeking a safe space to: (1) reconsider and discuss their idea of success, (2) receive and offer professional guidance with other museum professionals in all stages of career, and (3) explore strategies to grow and learn through any professional obstacles or setbacks. Success does not adhere to any linear path or hierarchy, rather it is as resilient and dynamic as we are.
    a. By the end of the session, participants will:
        i. Gain insights into the diverse career paths of a diverse group of museum professionals and how they navigated challenges along the way.
        ii. Learn practical strategies for advancing in the museum field, including mentorship, leadership development, and professional reinvention.
        iii. Understand the evolving museum landscape and how professionals can continue to grow and contribute to the field in the future.
        iv. Develop a network of peers and mentors to support their career development in the museum sector.
    b. We will address the above learning goals through these key topics: 
        i. Defining Career Success: Thinking beyond the job promotion.
        ii. Overcoming Challenges: Reflecting on obstacles faced along the way and how they were overcome.
        iii. Adaptation and Reinvention: How the museum field has changed, and how professionals have adapted or reinvented their careers in response.
        iv. Mentorship and Legacy: The role of mentorship in career development and how seasoned professionals can create lasting legacies.
        v. Work-Life Balance: Strategies for maintaining a healthy work-life balance and setting personal and professional boundaries in a demanding field.
        vi. Future Leadership: Not everyone needs a director, but everyone needs a leader."""
session_engagement = """1. This interactive hybrid-format session allows for participants to engage in multiple ways, supporting many different learning styles in both small-group and large-group activities and discussions. Participants will hear the stories of the panelists (with diverse backgrounds and experience levels), and be asked to conceptualize an “elevator pitch” for their personal career paths to highlight their past successes. Participants will also engage in multi-level discussions as they explore and rethink their own ideals of professional success."""
session_scalability = """Desire and interest in professional growth and success are not exclusive to emerging professionals, and per the concept behind this session, success can mean something different for each individual. The point is to honor our unique experiences and journeys, and reassess/redefine our current (but ever-evolving) notion of professional and personal success as it applies to each of our unique stories. This session is relevant to everyone, no matter their organization type, size, or mission. 
 
"""
audience = [ "technology","curators","registrars","events","development","marketing","facilities" ]
level = [ "alllevels" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """"""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [  ]
submission_year = "2025"

[submitter]
first_name = "Makenzie"
last_name = "Stewart"
title = "Volunteer Supervisor"
institution = "Santa Barbara Zoo"
location = "Santa Barbara "
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """"""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Doug"
last_name = "Jenzen"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Foundation at Hearst Castle"
location = "California"
tel = ""
email = "Doug@foundationathearstcastle.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Seth"
last_name = "Margolis"
title = "Director, William A. Helsell Department of Education"
institution = "Museum of Flight"
location = "Seattle"
tel = ""
email = "SMargolis@museumofflight.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """"""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Britt"
last_name = "Benton"
title = "Government Affairs Coordinator "
institution = "California Academy of Sciences"
location = "San Francisco "
tel = ""
email = "bbenton@calacademy.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Molly"
last_name = "Wilmoth"
title = "Curator of Education and Engagement "
institution = "High Desert Museum "
location = "Bend, OR"
tel = ""
email = "mwilmoth@highdesertmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """"""
+++
In a time where the future may be full of questions and unknowns, it can be difficult to understand what success means in your current career stage. This session offers a safe space to explore these ideas with a panel of emerging, mid-, and late-career museum professionals, where you are invited to share your story and think together about how our ideas of success have changed throughout our unique paths, and what they might look like now.
