+++
ID = "WMA2022_102"
last_modified = "2020-07-22T17:08:52.000Z"
session_title = "Crafting Cohesion: Strategies for Honoring Diverse Voices"
session_track_id = "Visitor Experience"
round_number = "Round 1"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Generating cohesive, yet diverse, content is always relevant.  “Curve ball” case studies ask attendees to problem solve by applying their professional experience to different scenarios."""
session_objectives = """Attendees will:
1) Be able to Identify strategies for keeping exhibitions cohesive given the inherent structure of 3-D museum spaces by viewing exhibitions through the lenses of story and poetry.
2) Recognize the value of combining multiple perspectives into a cohesive throughline.
3) Have a broader understanding of cohesive through-line challenges and solutions as demonstrated by case study scenarios."""
session_engagement = """The panel presenters will both develop case study stories on their own projects, and generate the “curve ball” scenarios for session participants.  All of the case studies will be based on “real world” experiences. The panel members are experienced presenters who are capable of encouraging and managing a lively discussion."""
session_scalability = """The core issue in this session, generating cohesive content applies to all museum professionals.
"""
audience = [ "curators","marketing","technology","development","general" ]
level = [ "general" ]
other_comments = """We feel this session is particularly relevant to WMA’s FORWARD theme as the proposed case studies model poignant examples of projects that adapted and responded to cultural, environmental, and  technological change."""
theme_relationship = """•	Ours is an evergreen topic that can relate to most any conference theme. Specifically, our session proposal relates to the FORWARD theme in the following ways
•	- Embracing diversity as a way to foster on-going conversations between an institution and its community
•	- Incorporating new technologies into exhibitions as a way to empower future generations
•	- Joining into unconventional and innovative partnerships as a way to celebrate new voices"""
theme_comments = """We are willing to be responsive to the needs of the planning committee. Let us know. 
"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [ "sibyledwards" ]
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Susan "
last_name = "Spero"
title = "Professor"
institution = "Museum Studies, John F. Kennedy University"
location = "Novato, CA"
tel = "415.265.8947"
email = "susanbspero@gmail.com"
email2 = "sspero@jfku.edu"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """I have gathered these panelists together, overseen the writing of this proposal, will moderate the discussions in between sessions, and offer general support as needed."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Brianna "
last_name = "Cutts"
title = "Creative Director"
institution = "The Sibbett Group"
location = "San Anselmo, CA"
tel = "415.298.2374"
email = "brianna@sibbettgroup.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Brianna has over 25 years of experience developing exhibitions. She has experience presenting on conference panels and leading conference workshops, as well as over a decade teaching about the topic of creating exhibitions. Brianna is currently writing a book about developing and designing museum exhibitions."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Katherine"
last_name = "Whitney"
title = "Principle"
institution = "Katherine Whitney & Associates"
location = "Berkeley, CA"
tel = "N/A"
email = "kw@whitney.net"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Katherine has 25 years of experience as an exhibition developer and writer. She is co-editor of the non-fiction anthology My Shadow is My Skin: Stories from the Iranian Diaspora, and is consulting with the Center for Iranian Diaspora Studies at San Francisco State University to create a traveling exhibition about the Iranian diaspora in the United States."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Margie"
last_name = "Maynard"
title = "Deputy Director"
institution = "Sonoma Valley Museum of Art"
location = "Sonoma, CA"
tel = "707.980.4209"
email = "mmaynard@svma.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Margie has over 30 years of experience designing interpretive applications in art museums. She has held leadership positions in education and museum experience, and is currently the Deputy Director, Engagement and Exhibitions at the Sonoma Valley Museum of Art. In 2018 she co-organized an exhibition of artworks and poetry and prose made in response to the Sonoma/Napa fires of 2017."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Much has been written about museum exhibitions and their rich potential for storytelling. And yet, the realities of object-based exhibitions often result in narratives more closely resembling poetry. Join us to examine the principles and practices underlying successful case studies with developed cohesive throughlines using story and poetry forms to guide the process. With the audience, we’ll also generate potential solutions to combat the classic “curve balls” threatening to disrupt the best laid project plans. 
