+++
ID = "WMA2022_138"
last_modified = "2020-07-22T17:08:52.000Z"
session_title = "Connecting Your Community Through Unique Partnerships"
session_track_id = "Community Engagement"
round_number = "Round 2"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Seeking out unconventional partnerships to reach goals through projects or programming is something that can help move museums forward in innovative ways."""
session_objectives = """1.     Assess current and/or future plans for programs and projects. Examples of the questions we will use to guide the interactive portion of the session will include the following: What are some areas where you find yourself responding with “we don’t have enough, money, staff, time, to accomplish X?” 2.     Identify possible partnerships (businesses, schools, non-profits, foundations, etc.) Participants will leave with tools and guiding steps to take what they have started in the session and implement it at their institution. 3.    Establish a method, through examples given, for attendees to feel inspired to approach partnerships with a new perspective. By compiling a list of possible partners, participants can then brainstorm realistic ways to get them involved. A successful example that will be discussed as an example is how the Tulare County Museum partnered with multiple cultural groups within Tulare County to produce exhibits in a rotating series that tell the stories of agriculture through the community members. In having the community create exhibits, it is possible to involve individuals, families and also groups such as the Sons of Italy."""
session_engagement = """Brief introductions and case studies will be presented through PowerPoint along with handouts. Time for questions and answers will be allotted at the end of each presentation. Handouts with guiding questions will be distributed as participants break into small groups to brainstorm/share possible and successful partnerships. As we regroup we will ask for audience participation to share out ideas and ask any final questions."""
session_scalability = """The learning outcomes ask the participants to assess their own organizations goals for programs and projects as the first step, so that the ideas are tailored to their specific needs which can have a large range. Our panelists represent both large and small museums with and can offer examples of successful partnerships to inspire participants to seek out potential partners. The Portland Art Museum’s membership includes over 23,000 families and they have an annual attendance of over 350,000. The Oregon Jewish Museum and Center for Holocaust Education has an annual attendance of 30,00 and the Tulare County Museum has approximately 15,000. With ranging attendance and also staff sizes, there will be excellent variety of innovative partnerships and their benefits to programming.
"""
audience = [ "curators","events","development","general" ]
level = [ "general" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This session will create an avenue for conversations concerning the benefits of innovative partnerships as the beginning stages of the planning process. As inclusiveness, accessibility, and innovation are at the forefront of museums, working to include unconventional partners in projects is a way that museums can move forward with these concepts. Many smaller museums are facing similar circumstance of a small budget and a small staff and can feel stuck. This session will help demonstrate the possibilities of successful partnering with other organizations using limited resources to move forward."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [ "amberbeierle" ]
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Amy"
last_name = "King"
title = "Museum Curator"
institution = "Tulare County Museum"
location = "Visalia, Ca"
tel = "559-624-7326"
email = "aking1@co.tulare.ca.us"
email2 = "amylynn.king@gmail.com"
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """I have been working at the Tulare County Museum as the curator for ten years and have experience creating new and unique partnerships throughout Tulare County. In my time with the museum I have worked to create these partnerships facing issues that many small museums deal with such as a small budget, small staff, and limited resources. I have managed to expand those resources and build meaningful connections in the community through innovative partnerships. I have brought my museum forward by involving the community."""

[moderator]
first_name = "Lisa "
last_name = "Monteiro"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Mineral King Preservation Society"
location = "Three Rivers, CA"
tel = "559-561-1000"
email = "lisa@mineralking.org"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Lisa has experience creating unique partnerships in the six years she has been a director of historical organizations. She has experience working with small budgets, staff, and resources and has worked in rural locations. She understands the issues smaller organizations face and knows the impact and power that a successful partnership can bring."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Judy "
last_name = "Margles"
title = "Director"
institution = "Oregon Jewish Museum and Center for Holocaust Education"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503-226-3600"
email = "jmargles@ojmche.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Judy is the director of a museum that has experienced unusual growth in the last five years, first a merger resulting in a new mission followed by the acquisition of a permanent home that doubled the size of the institution. Judy will be helpful in discussing how new partnerships and programs, high school and college interns for example, as well as new visioning for enduring programs and an oral history project, have deepened the engagement of the museum in the community."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Mike"
last_name = "Murawski"
title = "Director of Learning and Community Partnerships"
institution = "Portland Art Museum"
location = "Portland, CA"
tel = "503-679-1090"
email = "mike.murawski@pam.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As a staff member of the oldest art museums in the Pacific Northwest, Mike has access to and has been a part of many changes that have brought the museum to what it is today. Working in a larger institution, he can offer many examples of successful collaboration strategies while working with fellow staff, volunteers, and interns to achieve programming. The Portland Art Museum has a long list of diverse affiliations in the community and Mike can speak to the ways the museum works to engage diverse communities through art."""

[pres_3]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
The right partnerships can have a huge impact on your organization and community. This session will present examples from three museums on how partnerships have played a role in successful programs and projects. Even with tight budgets, limited staffing, or rural locations! Attendees will be allotted time to workshop ideas with presenters that come from institutions varying in size and subject matter. Attendees will leave being able to think creatively about what unique partnerships they have in their communities and what steps to take next.
