+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP029"
last_modified = "2020-07-22T17:08:52.000Z"
session_title = "Annual Exhibit Critique: Oregon Historical Society’s Experience Oregon  "
session_track_id = "rec2WEnOY9RhERrLk"
session_type = ""
session_unique = """This session provides a forum for multiple perspectives from a variety of museum professionals to be expressed, and facilitates increasing our field’s creative tools."""
session_objectives = """The session aims, through constructive critique and dialogue, to inform audience  members about ways of meeting challenges encountered while creating, installing, and presenting exhibits -- issues for exhibit practice that the exhibit raises. Attendees at this session will engage with curatorial practice and visitor engagement through discussions revolving around best practices in exhibit work.   In addition to critiquing the single exhibit, the staff at OHM is also interested in hearing impressions from the critique panel and the audience about the new exhibit and experiences at OHM, to incorporate as they design their next experiences. Takeaways will be the notes (mental or written) that audience members make as they listen and participate.  Spontaneity is a hallmark of the session, so the specific takeaways cannot be predicted in advance. Past sessions have generated new ideas and approaches especially for operationally bringing exhibits from idea to reality.   Tangible takeaways include 1) handouts outlining OHM’s exhibit development process, 2) handouts with information and links to current resources on exhibit design, and 3) information on best practices in community engagement through exhibit design.  Finally, as the session organizer, two of my goals in taking over the session planning in 2018 has been to expand the pool of Critiquers, and to bring in new voices to the panel."""
session_engagement = """Short intro to the panelists/ session;  Short visual introduction to the exhibit (so anyone one who didn’t see the exhibit can get an idea of the layout);  A critiquer presents overall thoughts, impressions, critique, and questions;  Two critiquers pair up - one reviewer/one exhibit team member – for conversations/fire side chats, calling out interesting and/or challenging aspects of the exhibit from different professional lenses and the experience going through the exhibit;  Leaves about 30 minutes for audience questions/ audience-driven conversation."""
session_scalability = """Audience members should be able to apply lessons learned and shared to any size museum exhibit. The handouts on handouts outlining OHM’s exhibit development process, and those handouts with information and links to current resources on exhibit design will be useful to all.
"""
audience = [ "curators","general" ]
level = [ "student","EMP","midcareer","general" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """Few things in museums move us FORWARD more than professionals in the field sharing ideas, in this case about exhibits. The ability for audience members to hone their exhibit critiquing skills, while learning from experiences of other professionals in the field, as we examine current exhibition practice, should leave all attending thinking about how they might apply what they learn to move their exhibits and institutions FORWARD."""
theme_comments = """Session Abstract: Creating an exhibit, in any discipline, is not a task for the faint of heart. It takes considerable vision, collaboration, planning, and effort to craft an exhibit with a clear purpose, inclusive narrative, and broad engagement. Each year, the WMA annual exhibit critique session shares out observations and assessments of a current exhibit. These have come from a wide variety of museum types, and have covered a range of topics, with the overarching goals being to help the field recognize excellence, create critical dialogue, and to engage museum professionals at WMA in a reflexive process of analysis of exhibit practice in the 21st century. The session focuses on critique that is analytical rather than descriptive. We review large exhibitions seen by thousands of people, small innovative exhibits, and exhibits focused on underrepresented topics. The “critiquers” feature regional museum professionals, usually curators, exhibit developers/designers, educators, engagement, and/or collections folks, who each critique the exhibit from their own professional perspective - what works well, areas they see that didn't work as well or that confused them, innovative ideas the exhibit highlights (could be tech, content, presentation, design, programming, etc.), and questions they have for the exhibit creation team. Select members of site museum’s exhibit creation team has opportunities to share their exhibit, the ideas/intentions/goals behind it, what they like best about it, what they would do differently if they could, next steps if any, and answer the reviewers questions in dialogue with them and the audience.   
"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [ "kathleendaly" ]
submission_year = "2021"

[submitter]
first_name = "Keni"
last_name = "Sturgeon"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Wenatchee Valley Museum & Cultural Center"
location = "Wenatchee"
tel = "5098886242"
email = "ksturgeon@wvmcc.org"
email2 = "ksturgeon@wvmcc.org"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """Moderator/Organizer. I'll also ensure balance of time and questions from the audience, so one individual cannot dominate the Q&A/Discussion. I took over organizing this annual session in 2018.  Previously I served as an Exhibit Critiquer in this annual session for 3 years. I have more than 12 years of exhibit design, installation and curation experience, and have worked in visitor engagement in zoos, aquaria, history and cultural museums, and science centers for more than 20 years."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Seth "
last_name = "Margolis"
title = "Director of Education Programs"
institution = "Musuem of Flight"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "(206) 768-7116"
email = "SMargolis@museumofflight.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Seth is the Director of the Education Department at The Museum of Flight in Seattle. He studied history at the University of Alberta, received his MA in Museology at the University of Washington (UW). Seth has worked in museums in the U.S. and Canada. He also museum education for the UW’s Graduate Program in Museology and serves on the advisory board for the Museum Studies Certificate Program. Seth has developed exhibit content, programming, and hands-on engagement activities for numerous history-based museums."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Kate "
last_name = "Fernandez"
title = "Director of Interpretation & Visitor Experience"
institution = "Burke Museum"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206.685.1731   "
email = "kfern@uw.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Kate is the director of interpretation & visitor experience at the Burke Museum, overseeing the strategy and implementation of exhibits, programs and the visitor experience team. Previously, she developed award-winning exhibits about local communities for MOHAI in Seattle’s Museum of History & Industry. Kate leads her exhibit team with a strong design sense and she brings an understanding of audience to all of her work. She holds a degree in Comparative History of Ideas and a minor in American Indian Studies from the University of Washington and a Certificate in Museum Studies from UW Continuum College."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Lorie"
last_name = "Millward"
title = "VP of Possibilities"
institution = "Thanksgiving Point Institute"
location = "Lehi, UT "
tel = "(801) 768-2300 "
email = "lmillward@thanksgivingpoint.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As the VP of Possibilities, Lorie is responsible for the entire spectrum of experience programming, including: exhibition, audience research, design, education, grant management, venue content specialists, and volunteers for Thanksgiving Point. Cultural institutions, as places where people visit because they choose to learn, can and should be places where all feel welcomed, valued, and challenged to be better humans, which is why Lorie has given 30 years of her life to cultural institutions as a humble learner, leader, and advocate striving to spread the gospel of free-choice learning, self-discovery, and personal empowerment."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Tara"
last_name = "Cole"
title = "Museum Services Coordinator"
institution = " Oregon Historical Society"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "(503) 222-1741"
email = "Tara.Cole@OHS.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Tara was part of the exhibit team that created and installed Experience Oregon."""
+++
Join colleagues exploring current best practices in creating exhibitions—this year, with the Oregon Historical Society museum’s new permanent exhibit, Experience Oregon. This overarching history exhibit, incorporates opportunities to share ideas/opinions on relevant themes, interactive places throughout, and “Across Time” stations that use broad themes to draw connections between yesterday and today; emphasizing why learning about history matters. The museum is an evening event location, and is free to visit during the conference; please try to see the exhibit prior to the session.
