+++
ID = "WMA20201_002"
last_modified = "2020-07-20T23:32:25.000Z"
session_title = "Test"
session_desc = """test"""
session_track_id = ""
session_type = "regularsession"
session_unique = """Generating cohesive, yet diverse, content is always relevant.  “Curveball scenarios” ask attendees to problem solve by applying their professional experience to different situations."""
session_objectives = """Attendees will:  1) Recognize the value of combining multiple perspectives into a cohesive throughline. 2) Be able to Identify strategies for keeping exhibitions cohesive given the inherent structure of 3-D museum spaces by viewing exhibitions through the lenses of story and poetry. 3) Have a broader understanding of cohesive through-line challenges and solutions as demonstrated by case study scenarios."""
session_engagement = """The panel presenters will both develop case study stories on their own projects, and generate the “curve ball scenarios” for session participants.  All of the case studies will be based on “real world” experiences. The panel members are experienced presenters who are capable of encouraging and managing a lively discussion."""
session_scalability = """The content and problem solving experiences of the session address a core museum professional skill: crafting coherent messages. """
audience = ""
level = "Student,Emerging Professional,Mid-Career,Senior Level,General Audience"
other_comments = """To address  the program committee's concern about our panelists,  the group selected for this panel represent a wide range of institutions. One comes from a rural institution served as the curator for the case study she brings , others have worked with organizations of all kinds.  The selected members of the panel will bring deep expertise to the discussion and across the board have sophisticated  skills and experience with involving audience participation for conference sessions.  We also believe it will be a lively session as we ask everyone to join in to solve curveball scenarios."""
theme_relationship = """We feel this session is particularly relevant to WMA’s FORWARD theme as the proposed case studies model poignant examples of projects that adapted and responded to cultural, environmental, and technological change."""
theme_comments = """We believe this session will be useful for all conference attendees as it discusses a fundamental challenge of all organizations: the difficulty of crafting coherent messages. While the case studies are rooted in interpretation, the lessons have broader application. This is why so many of the audiences boxes have been checked above.    """
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "sibyledwards"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Susan"
last_name = "Spero"
title = "Professor, Museum Studies"
institution = "John F. Kennedy University"
location = "Novato, CA "
tel = "415.265.8947"
email = "susanbspero@gmail.com"
email2 = "sspero@jfku.edu"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """Susan has extensive experience in museum interpretation. She has led numerous panels at conferences and understands how to moderate so that there is a balance between the panelists and audience participation.  I will manage this panel behind the scenes."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Brianna"
last_name = "Cutts"
title = "Creative Director"
institution = "The Sibbett Group"
location = "San Anselmo, CA"
tel = "415.298.2374"
email = "brianna@sibbettgroup.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Brianna has over 25 years of experience developing exhibitions. She has experience presenting on conference panels and leading conference workshops, as well as over a decade teaching about the topic of creating exhibitions. Brianna is currently writing a book about developing and designing museum exhibitions."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Katherine "
last_name = "Whitney"
title = "Principle"
institution = "Katherine Whitney & Associates"
location = "Berkeley, CA "
tel = ""
email = "kw@kwhitney.net"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Katherine has 25 years of experience as an exhibition developer and writer. She is co-editor of the non-fiction anthology My Shadow is My Skin: Stories from the Iranian Diaspora, and is consulting with the Center for Iranian Diaspora Studies at San Francisco State University to create a traveling exhibition about the Iranian diaspora in the United States."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Margie"
last_name = "Maynard"
title = "Deputy Director"
institution = "Sonoma Valley Museum of Art"
location = "Sonoma, CA"
tel = "707-980-4209"
email = "mmaynard@svma.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Margie has over 30 years of experience designing interpretive applications in art museums. She has held leadership positions in education and museum experience, and is currently the Deputy Director, Engagement and Exhibitions at the Sonoma Valley Museum of Art. In 2018 she co-organized and curated an exhibition of artworks, poetry and prose made in response to the Sonoma/Napa fires of 2017."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Creating coherent exhibitions that honor and enhance diverse voices and ideas takes thought and skill. Join us to examine the principles and practices underlying successful case studies with developed through-lines using story and poetry frameworks to guide the process. We’ll also examine classic “curveball scenarios” that can throw off best laid project plans, and in group conversations, generate potential solutions.