+++
ID = "WMA2022_182"
last_modified = "2022-04-19T20:42:18.000Z"
session_title = "Measuring Social Impact for Strategic Change"
session_track_id = "Community Engagement"
round_number = "Round 1"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Museums need a systematic way to measure social impact. This session shares how MOMSI is creating, testing, and sharing a social impact toolkit."""
session_objectives = """Through this session, attendees will:

(1) Understand current developments in measuring museum social impact. Attendees will hear about our project’s history and the host museum selection process, briefly explore the social impact survey we’re testing, and see what social impact data looks like with preliminary findings from the study. 
(2) Explore how museums are using social impact to advance their work.  Attendees will have time to hear from three presenters on how their museums used a museum-wide equity-driven process to recruit study participants, are engaging communities in strategic planning through the study, and using social impact data for master planning and advocacy.
(3) Learn about a social impact toolkit that will be available summer 2023. Attendees will be provided the opportunity to offer feedback and comment on the forthcoming social impact toolkit. Their feedback and participation will guide the project team’s formation of the social impact toolkit, ensuring it and the resources included are useful and relevant to a broad range of museums."""
session_engagement = """Using the Speed Geeking technique, each presenter will share their perspective and then facilitate a discussion with attendees around one of three topic areas: recruiting participants through an equity lens, community engagement/using social impact data for strategic planning, and using social impact data for advocacy. At the end of the session, attendees will share what aspects of a toolkit would be most beneficial to help them independently measure social impact in the future."""
session_scalability = """MOMSI host museums were strategically chosen to represent every region of the US, museums of varying size (including staff, budget, and visitorship), and varying content areas (from art museums to zoos) all to help inform the social impact toolkit (coming 2023). We understand museum staff capacity is already at its limit, and carrying out such work, while important, needs to come with as many supporting documents and resources as possible. We hope that while our work will inspire attendees to understand and measure social impact, we also hope to gain a deeper understanding of what attendees will need to do this kind of work at their museum so we can create a relevant and usable toolkit.
"""
audience = [ "general","directors","inclusion","evaluators","development" ]
level = [ "alllevels" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """Museums often talk about social impact, but how do they know it’s happening? This forward-thinking national study has made progress in creating a social impact survey that will help museums launch into the future. Knowing what impacts museums make helps inform choices in strategic planning, programming, hiring, and outreach. We will inspire museums to consider how to take ownership of learning about their social impact, and what changes they can make to their museum practices."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [  ]
submission_year = "2022"

[submitter]
first_name = "Michelle"
last_name = "Mileham"
title = "Project Manager, Measurement of Museum Social Impact"
institution = "Utah Division of Arts & Museums"
location = "Salt Lake City, UT"
tel = ""
email = "mmileham@utah.gov"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """As the Project Manager for MOMSI, Michelle is suited to provide an overarching background of the project and keep conversations focused on what has been relevant to date in this national study. Knowing what other host museums have experienced throughout this project also allows Michelle to share more details beyond the perspectives of the presenting host museums."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Emily "
last_name = "Johnson"
title = "Field Services Manager"
institution = "Utah Division of Arts & Museums"
location = "Salt Lake City, UT"
tel = ""
email = "emilyjohnson@utah.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Emily was the project manager for the Utah state social impact pilot study, on which MOMSI was based. She brings expertise and drive to learn how small museums can measure their social impact."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Dean"
last_name = "Watanabe"
title = "Chief Mission Officer"
institution = "Fresno Chaffee Zoo"
location = "Fresno, CA"
tel = ""
email = "dwatanabe@fresnochaffeezoo.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Brings experience as a MOMSI host museum. Fresno Chaffee Zoo focused on community engagement as a means to recruit visitors to the study, and will use the social impact data to inform their strategic plan."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Dan"
last_name = "Keeffe"
title = "Director of Learning & Engagement"
institution = "Los Angeles Zoo and Botanical Gardens"
location = "Los Angeles, CA"
tel = ""
email = "dan.keeffe@lacity.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Brings experience as a MOMSI host museum. Los Angeles Zoo used an equity approach to recruit visitors to the study."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Lorie"
last_name = "Millward"
title = "VP of Possibilities"
institution = "Thanksgiving Point Institute "
location = "Lehi, UT"
tel = ""
email = "lmillward@Thanksgivingpoint.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Thanksgiving Point launched the first social impact study in the state of Utah. Lorie will share how they continue to use social impact data to drive institution-wide decisions, master planning, and advocacy efforts."""
+++
A national research study, Measurement of Museum Social Impact (MOMSI), is working to create a survey to help museums measure their social impact. In this session, hear about the study, its history, and the forthcoming toolkit; preliminary social impact data from MOMSI host museums; and host museum perspectives on how to recruit participants through an equity lens and use social impact data for master and strategic planning, advocacy, and community engagement. 
