+++
ID = "WMA2022_202"
last_modified = "2022-04-08T19:05:45.000Z"
session_title = "Woosh.Jee.Een Pulling Together - The Xunaa Cultural Heritage Center and Museum"
session_track_id = "Indigenous"
round_number = ""
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Seeking common ground through an empowered tribal perspective brings a new dimension to sharing, collaboration and design for the Hoonah Indian Association."""
session_objectives = """1. Understanding positive processes to empower local tribal sovereignty while building mutual bridges for research, collaboration and sharing. 
2. Creating a multi-dimensional cultural center with full museum functions, yet prioritizing community and cultural gathering. The center will also be a major draw to the cruise tourist industry for 4 months of the year and accommodate the influx of 500,000 visitors to the town of Hoonah, pop. 700.
3. Strategies for embodying traditional stories in the choreography of experience at the new museum through the design of architecture, site, and exhibits."""
session_engagement = """Using films (recently edited), powerpoint, and discussion we will engage the audience in open discussion about ‘finding new pathways of collaboration’ at your institution."""
session_scalability = """Collaboration, empowerment and story-telling are common to multiple scales of institutions from regional to large urban museums. The integration of a ‘destination’ site for cruise tourism mixed with an authentic year-round community building is a current issue at multiple sites internationally. 
"""
audience = [ "curators","inclusion","general","registrars","education","exhibitdesign","programs","other" ]
level = [ "allprofessional" ]
other_comments = """Focus on high level organizational collaboration and reconciliation mixed with design strategies for achieving these goals. Diverse audience from Indigenous community members to organizations and museum specialists seeking to partner and find allies in cultural work."""
theme_relationship = """The Hoonah Indian Association could have chosen a more confrontational path to access objects and rights with multiple institutions. They chose a positive collaborative path that resulted in attaining the rights and control of cultural objects and land, while also building strong relationships and sharing potential to move forward with the University of Pennsylvania and the National Park Service."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = "N/A"
assignee = [  ]
submission_year = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Richard (Rich)"
last_name = "Franko"
title = "Partner"
institution = "Mithun, Inc."
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206-971-5627"
email = "RichardF@Mithun.com"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """See presenter #3 justification below."""

[moderator]
first_name = "Robert (Bob) "
last_name = "Starbard"
title = "CEO and Tribal Administrator"
institution = "Hoonah Indian Association"
location = "Hoonah, AK"
tel = "907-723-7791"
email = "robert.starbard@hiatribe.org"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "true"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As the leader of the Hoonah Indian Association (HIA) and multiple economic development initiatives, Bob leads the engagement with the University of Pennsylvania Museum, the National Park Service, and the new Xunaa museum design team at Mithun. Bob is leading the XCHC&M project for HIA, a federally recognized tribe, with over 1200 registered members. 
 He has been directly involved with negotiations with the National Park Service over long standing issues ranging from resource gathering rights to the creation of a new cultural house in Glacier National Park. Bob is a member of the Takdeintaan Tsal Xaan Hit-Mt.Fairweather House."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Lucy "
last_name = "Fowler Williams "
title = "Associate Curator in Charge and Senior Keeper of American Collections of the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology"
institution = "Penn Museum"
location = "Philadelphia, PA"
tel = "215-898-4048"
email = "wfowler@upenn.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As the Curator of the Shotridge Collection at Penn Museum, Lucy Fowler Williams has been in discussions with HIA since 2002 regarding Tlingit artifacts acquired by Louis Shotridge during the early 20th Century. A joint partnership between Penn Museum and the tribe resulted in repatriation protocols for Huna artifacts within the Shotridge collection, joint educational and research endeavors, and a collaborative spirit based on balance and respect. Louis Shotridge (Stoowukaa, 1879-1937) was a Tlingit scholar and curator who worked for Penn Museum from 1912-1932 and made collections for Penn. Some of these artifacts took on special significance when the town of Hoonah burned to the ground in June of 1944 and every house and artifacts were destroyed. Member of the XCHC&M advisory committee, and is an adopted member of the Takdeintaan clan."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Mary Beth"
last_name = "Moss"
title = "Cultural Anthropologist"
institution = "National Park Service "
location = "Juneau, AK"
tel = ""
email = "Mary_Beth_Moss@nps.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Mary Beth Moss brings the perspective of a career as a National Park Service Historian and Cultural Anthropologist, balanced with an interim career as a Tribal Administrator for the Hoonah Indian Association. She was a leader in the 2006 process of programming to engage tribal members in the collection of stories and a vision for the first design iteration of the tribal center and museum. She also participated in the discussions around reconciliation and collaboration at Glacier Bay National Park.    With a background in Wildlife Ecology and Forest Science she also has a passion for Traditional Ecological knowledge and lifeways.  Member of the XCHC&M advisory committee the Chookaneidi clan."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Richard"
last_name = "Franko"
title = "Partner and FAIA Member"
institution = "Mithun, Inc."
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206-971-5627"
email = "richardf@mithun.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Rich Franko is leading the design of the new XCHC&M project, and brings a background in the design of museums from the National Nordic Museum to the Wanapum Heritage Center. The Mithun team, includes AldrichPears for exhibit design, and are working to bring to life the Xunaa Tlingit story on a site in the town of Hoonah. The Mithun perspective is based on a thorough analysis of site, story and future goals to create a center that can provide a tourist destination for the cruise industry while emphasizing and prioritizing the year round tribal community functions."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
The Hoonah Indian Association (HIA) is creating a new Xunaa Cultural Heritage Center and Museum (XCHCM) for community cultural activities, museum and interpretive experiences and tribal administration offices, in Hoonah Alaska. The development of the Museum is connected to evolving relationships with the University of Pennsylvania Museum’s Tlingit Louis Shotridge Collection, and the National Parks Service (NPS) stewardship of Glacier Bay National Park. 
NPS and the University of Pennsylvania both have ongoing dialogues with the HIA on collaboration, research, reclaiming rights and the repatriation of artifacts.  These partnerships are a forward-thinking approach to the creation of a new museum environment for site, building and exhibits to tell the Xunaa Tlingit story. 
