+++
ID = "WMA2022_207"
last_modified = "2022-04-19T20:42:18.000Z"
session_title = "Managing Successful Museum Projects: Exhibits, Expansions, Renovations and New Construction"
session_track_id = "Other,Business"
round_number = "Round 1"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """The design and construction environment – for buildings, sites and exhibits – changes quickly, and the members of this panel have been on all sides of the space. We have been clients (museum staff), consultants, fabricators and owner’s representatives, so we are advocates for museum professionals being informed, prepared clients for design and construction services."""
session_objectives = """Learning outcomes Include:
·      Develop and answer the basic Implementation questions about your project - budget, schedule, team and goals.
·      Discover techniques for selecting designers, fabricators and contractors, and for procuring services in a fair and effective way.
·      Understand the phases of a design and construction project, from Concept Design to Closeout.
 
Topics will include:
·      Implementation plans - budgets, schedule, programs and project calendars 
·      The relationships between exhibits, building and site in design and construction 
·      Phases of design
·      Care and feeding of consultant teams
·      Internal team roles and responsibilities 
·      Running a project while your museum is open. How does that work? 
·      Project cash flow"""
session_engagement = """We will bring partially populated flow charts showing how capital projects proceed, and encourage people to fill in details of their own project, either known or estimated. The format will be open to discussion - the facilitators know each other and can balance each other's expertise and experience. 
    In a round of "lightening presentations," the speakers will cover the basics of getting projects off the ground and seeing them built. Together we will travel through the entire project cycle, and create a picture that attendees will be able to fill in as their project proceeds. We will follow that with directed Q/A, depending on the number of attendees. With a large group, we'll divide the room into four topic areas, with each facilitator leading a specific topic."""
session_scalability = """  Museums of all sizes (sf or visitor numbers) plan renovations, expansions and updates. The ideas in this presentation apply to anyone who wants to do a capital project with an outside design and construction team.
  
"""
audience = [ "board","facilities","directors" ]
level = [ "seniorlevel","museumboard" ]
other_comments = """Intended for museum leadership or project managers. 
Anyone contemplating a capital project can benefit from an introduction, or a refresher, about the design and construction process. Speakers will also address continuous operations plans - or how you do a big project while your museum is up and running."""
theme_relationship = """Capital projects are, by definition, forward thinking! Many museums have re-assessed their spaces for the post-2020 reality, and many may wonder if physical updates are in order."""
theme_comments = """  The proposed panel has many years, roles and projects under their belts, and a wide range of complimentary and overlapping skills. While several of us have roles as consultants, we are not selling services. We understand what it means for museums to embark on significant projects, and how far outside the comfort zone that can be for museum professionals. Our goal is to help our museum allies be great clients. Happy to talk more about this! 
  
"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [  ]
submission_year = "2022"

[submitter]
first_name = "Alissa"
last_name = "Rupp"
title = "Principal      and        Acting Director"
institution = "FRAME | Integrative Design Strategies    and    Seattle Children's Museum"
location = "Seattle"
tel = "2062347217"
email = "alissa@FrameDesignStrategies.com"
email2 = "alissa@thechildrensmuseum.org"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Alissa proposed that this group gather for the session, and will organize the team, collect slides and images, and orchestrate rehearsals of the group. She is an experienced presenter, and has a long career as a planner, architect and exhibit designer. She is also currently serving as Acting Director of Seattle Children’s Museum, so she sees this topic from many angles! Visit the FRAME website at www.FrameDesignStrategies.com"""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Jill"
last_name = "Randerson"
title = "Principal"
institution = "Jill Randerson Project Management"
location = "Seattle WA"
tel = "612-327-7353"
email = "Jill@jillranderson.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Jill has worked with dozens of museums and science centers, as planner, owner’s representative, cost estimator, project manager and fabricator. She has hands-on experience with getting exhibits designed, built and installed at all scales, across the US and around the world. Her work is detailed at www.jremco.com"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Peter"
last_name = "Olson"
title = "Principal                              and                      Interim Director"
institution = "Peter Olson Museum Planning LLC                     Wonder Trek Children’s Museum"
location = "Minneapolis, MN"
tel = "507-995-2242"
email = "polsonmuseum@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Peter is an advocate and excellent consultant to small and emerging museums, and believes in the amazing impact a museum can have on a community. He is a planner and has been a full time and interim museum director, so he brings a strong understanding of project management from several perspectives.  Peter’s credentials are detailed at www.startingachildrensmuseum.com"""

[pres_3]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
  Excited about an addition, renovation or new building? Regardless of your museum's topic, size or age, significant capital projects are heavy lifts! With effective strategies discussed in this session, you'll use your planning, design and construction dollars wisely and well. Gather the tools to translate your great ideas into effective, innovative, sustainable and responsive built space. Engage great internal and external teams. Get a head start on your project!
** **
  
