+++
ID = "WMA2022_242"
last_modified = "2022-04-13T17:55:32.000Z"
session_title = "New Kids on the Blockchain: Cryptocurrency and NFTs in Your Museum"
session_track_id = "Business"
round_number = ""
session_type = "Full-day workshop (9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.)"
session_unique = """Cryptocurrency and NFTs are here to stay, whether we like it or not. Museums that invest in learning about them now will be better prepared for the future."""
session_objectives = """Web 3.0 will depend on blockchain technology. FORWARD-thinking museums will want to embrace blockchain (and cryptocurrency and NFTs) to be better positioned for the mainstream arrival of Web 3.0, just as museums who embraced social media and mobile technology were leaders in our profession through Web 2.0. Learning outcomes for participants include:
 
- Understanding Web 3.0 and how it differs from Web 2.0.
- Being able to describe what blockchain is and how it works.
- Gaining knowledge on what cryptocurrency is, how it began, and how it is created and circulated.
- Being apprised on emerging good practices for accepting cryptocurrency as donations.
- Understanding what Non-Fungible Tokens are, how they are similar to physical objects, and how they differ from other digital assets
- Discovering the myriad ways NFTs could be integrated not just into museum collections, but museum operations.
- Appreciating the advantages that early adoption of blockchain technology will bring to the museum.
- Grasping the importance of drafting policies for NFTs and cryptocurrency.
- Nuts and bolts: how to get started accepting cryptocurrency and how to mint your first NFT
- What’s a “Smart Contract”
- Environmental Impact
- Understanding NFT domains and how they relate to receiving donations."""
session_engagement = """The workshop could include the following strategies to engage participants and ensure they receive maximum value from their attendance:
·      Attractive, easy-to-follow multimedia presentations
·      Interactive instruction with participants using tactile teaching aids (such as having participants construct a blockchain with Legos to understand how it works)
·      Working in small groups to discuss considerations for drafting a crypto and NFT policy
·      By days’ end, having participants set up their own digital wallets using their laptops or mobile devices."""
session_scalability = """**Museums deal in public trust and knowledge authentication no matter the size of the institution. Just like how the web itself applies to all museums large and small, so will blockchain in the near future. It is important for museum professionals from institutions of all sizes to understand the implications of this new technology.**
"""
audience = [ "technology" ]
level = [ "general" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This workshop relates to the theme of FORWARD by presenting up-to-the-minute information on this emerging technological subject that is currently only loosely regulated and not widely understood.  Cryptocurrency and NFTs, as well as their underlying blockchain technology, will be an integral part of Web 3.0.  History shows that museums who embraced social media and mobile technology in the 2000’s were well-prepared for Web 2.0, and the same will likely occur with Web 3.0 for museums who prepare today."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = "There will be a $40 fee which will cover the cost of printed materials, refreshments for two breaks, and a networking lunch for participants."
assignee = [  ]
submission_year = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Barron"
last_name = "Oda"
title = "General Counsel"
institution = "Bishop Museum"
location = "Honolulu, HI"
tel = "(808) 387-0467"
email = "Barron.oda@bishopmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Barron Oda has been chosen for his background in museum administration and experience with museum law. Barron has previously presented at the American Alliance of Museums’ 2016 Annual Meeting and two AAM webinars, at the ABA’s 2017 Annual Meeting on museum law, and at the 2018 WMA Annual Meeting (both a session and a workshop). Barron has also been a guest lecturer for Harvard Extension School’s graduate museology program and has published museum-specific articles. His practice areas include art law, museum law, cultural property, intellectual property, and nonprofit governance. Barron is admitted to practice law in Washington and Hawaii."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Nicholas "
last_name = "Griffith"
title = "Digital Developer"
institution = "Bishop Museum"
location = "Honolulu, HI"
tel = "808-397-6575"
email = "Nicholasg@bishopmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Nicholas is the digital developer for Bishop Museum, and works on the implementation and navigation of new blockchain solutions for cultural institutions and art galleries. Having worked with myriad businesses in most industries, he has common hurdles to innovation. The only thing that’s certain is that paradigms are shifting and in this environment, museums and galleries really need to understand the new playing field. 
 
Nicholas works directly on bridging the gap between the cultural sector, private galleries, and blockchain solutions, and is well-suited to present on new solutions to institutional issues common to us all."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Nathanael "
last_name = "Smith"
title = "Digital Asset Manager"
institution = "Bishop Museum"
location = "Honolulu, HI"
tel = "808-282-0459"
email = "nathanael.smith@bishopmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Nathanael is the Digital Asset Manager for the Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum Library & Archives where he oversees digitization and data management. A serial nerd, Nathanael is also a doctoral candidate in Philosophy at the University of Rochester and has launched a business mining and staking crypto."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Richard "
last_name = "Pyle"
title = "Senior Curator of Ichthyology / Director of XCoRE"
institution = "Bishop Museum"
location = "Honolulu, HI"
tel = "808-848-4115"
email = "deepreef@bishopmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Dr. Pyle has several decades of experience as a researcher and developing databases and other informatics systems for museum and research objectives, including active participation in international data standards groups. He is directly involved with several aspects of blockchain, cryptocurrency and related technologies, and is a member of the Science Advisory Committee for Moonjelly Academy (https://www.moonjelly.io), an organization establishing a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO) to leverage blockchain, cryptocurrencies, NFTs and related technologies to support ocean conservation. His role in this workshop will be to explain how these Web3 technologies can benefit and support scientific research and conservation aspects of museums."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
**Cryptocurrency and NFTs (Non-Fungible Tokens) are here to stay. Get a headstart on Web 3.0 and get savvy on how this applies to your museum! Learn about blockchain, the technology underpinning cryptocurrency and NFTs. Discover how NFTs can strengthen your collections as well as become a part of it. Interested in accepting crypto at your upcoming gala? You’ll hear about emerging good practices and how to steer clear of pitfalls. Move your museum FORWARD by getting up to speed on crypto and NFTs!**
