+++
ID = "WMA2022_245"
last_modified = "2022-04-13T23:19:43.000Z"
session_title = "Leveraging Major Gifts to Support Transformational Campaigns"
session_track_id = "Other"
round_number = ""
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """As museums reemerge from the pandemic, exploring how to secure major gifts in a hybrid world is critical to the success and impact of museums."""
session_objectives = """After the session, attendees will..
 
1. Understand how and when to build a major gifts strategy.
2. Know how to pursue major gifts through thoughtful, creative cultivation strategies in a hybrid fundraising environment.
3. Walk away with successful examples for securing transformational philanthropic gifts that they will be able to adjust and/or replicate with their own donors."""
session_engagement = """Host an audience Q&A after the panel; we might build live polls into the presentation depending on content needs
Resources might include: microphones for Q&A, live polling software (we could provide)"""
session_scalability = """Organizations of all sizes can engage in capital campaigns and secure major gifts at a scale that is appropriate to their goals. Our presenters would encourage all organizations to build a culture of philanthropy to either support current or upcoming campaigns or lay a foundation for future campaign efforts.
"""
audience = [ "directors","development","board" ]
level = [ "midcareer","seniorlevel","museumboard" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """Philanthropy is a fundamentally forward-looking pursuit. Our session will encourage attendees to align their fundraising goals to their organization's vision and future impact. For volunteer leaders or board members, this session provides a window into fundraising strategies that might benefit their organization and prompts them to consider what role they might play in strengthening a culture of philanthropy at their organization."""
theme_comments = """
"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = "0"
assignee = [  ]
submission_year = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Courtney"
last_name = "Martin"
title = "Director of Marketing"
institution = "CCS Fundraising"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "8157662070"
email = "CMartin@ccsfundraising.com"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """"""

[moderator]
first_name = "Frederic J. 'Rick'"
last_name = "Happy"
title = "Principal and Managing Director"
institution = "CCS Fundraising"
location = "San Francisco, CA"
tel = "4153925395"
email = "FJHappy@ccsfundraising.com"
email2 = "ccssanfrancisco@ccsfundraising.com"
is_pres = "true"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Rick Happy brings more than 35 years of fundraising and campaign management experience to the panel conversation. Rick is leading the work with High Desert Museum and will help drive a nuanced conversation around the major gift strategies and campaign management. Frederic J. “Rick” Happy is a Principal & Managing Director of CCS. Rick has directed over 100 capital campaigns, which have raised a combined total exceeding $2 billion. His select client experience in the arts and culture sector includes High Desert Museum, Bay Area Discovery Museum, Crocker Art Museum, Denver Center for the Perfuming Arts, and the Utah Symphony."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Karie"
last_name = "Burch"
title = "Director of Development"
institution = "Portland Art Museum"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "5032764240"
email = "Karie.Burch@pam.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """The Portland Art Museum (PAM) has secured more than $80M in support of their historic $100M campaign. The success of the campaign is driven by major gifts, which Karie played a significant role in cultivating and securing. Karie has served the Portland Art Museum for more than 15 years in various capacities, with four years as the museum’s Director of Development. Her scope of responsibilities at the Museum have included major gifts, corporate development, planned giving, special events, and, most notably, managing and growing the Patron Society program into a key pillar of support for the Museum’s community mission."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Dana"
last_name = "Whitelaw"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "High Desert Museum"
location = "Bend, OR"
tel = "5413824754"
email = "DWhitelaw@highdesertmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """The High Desert Museum is conducting a $40M capital expansion project to renovate indoor areas, reimagine space for its Native American exhibit, and design an immersive Forest Canopy Walk. Dana has played a crucial role in setting the vision, pace, and success of the campaign to-date. Dana has been at the High Desert Museum for more than 13 years and the Executive Director for five. Under Dana’s leadership, the High Desert Museum has become a Smithsonian Affiliate, experienced record attendance and was a 2018 finalist for the prestigious National Medal for Museum and Library Service."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Katlyn"
last_name = "Torgerson"
title = "Senior Vice President"
institution = "CCS Fundraising"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "2068768523"
email = "KTorgerson@ccsfundraising.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Katlyn Torgerson is working with Portland Art Museum to help manage their historic $100M campaign in support of access, exhibitions, and programing at the Museum. Katlyn will join Rick as a co-moderator of the panel. In a decade at CCS, Katlyn has provided strategic counsel to CCS clients across nonprofit sectors, including education, healthcare, foundations, human services, and the arts. During her tenure, she has partnered with organizations to raise over $150 million in capital and programmatic funding. Her select client experience includes Portland Art Museum, High Desert Museum, UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital, PeaceHealth, Literary Arts, and World Forestry Center."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
 Many museums are beginning to reemerge in a new, hybrid world of fundraising and philanthropy. While some strategies and tactics have shifted, the heart of successful campaigns remains the same: major gifts. Major gifts propel capital campaigns to transformational heights while also inspiring a strong culture of philanthropy. Join us to hear from two museums about the cultivation and stewardship strategies that helped them secure largest-ever gifts in support of their transformational campaigns.
