+++
ID = "WMA2022_247"
last_modified = "2022-04-16T03:54:21.000Z"
session_title = "Mentorship: Best Practices and Indigenous Notions of Care"
session_track_id = "Indigenous,Leadership"
round_number = ""
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Few sessions, if any, have explored mentorship through an indigenous lens - while still distilling best practices that are applicable to all."""
session_objectives = """Objectives of this session are to (1) share the mentorship experiences of four indigenous museum folks; (2) sharing specific mentorship program information, as applicable; (3) identify what qualities make a good mentor; (4) discuss indigenous notions of care and mentorship; (5) distill what best practices in mentorship look like that can be applied beyond an indigenous context."""
session_engagement = """Audience members will learn about mentorship through an indigenous lens, as experienced by actual mentor/mentee relationships between the panelists. This will not be a standard panel but a moderated one with questions posed throughout, followed by audience Q&A."""
session_scalability = """All institutions have mentorship opportunities - opportunities which can be strengthened and expanded, benefiting the individual and the organization.
"""
audience = [ "general","EMP","inclusion" ]
level = [ "allprofessional","student","midcareer" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This session looks "Forward" by examining how we can best grow and nurture the next generation of indigenous museum staff members, and by extension, all staff members."""
theme_comments = """I am awaiting confirmation from one of the presenters. If she falls through, I will be looking for an additional panelist. 
"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [  ]
submission_year = ""

[submitter]
first_name = "Noelle"
last_name = "Kahanu"
title = "Associate Specialist, Public Humanities and Native Hawaiian Programs"
institution = "University of Hawaii at Manoa"
location = "Honolulu, HI"
tel = "(808) 375-9125"
email = "nmkahanu@hawaii.edu"
email2 = "mooinanea22@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """Noelle has been a frequent presenter and moderator at WMA, with more than 20 years of experience in the museum field. She is connected in one way or another to all the panelists and seeks to deeply engage in an important conversation around mentorship and indigeneity."""

[moderator]
first_name = "Noelle"
last_name = "Kahanu"
title = "Associate Specialist, Public Humanities and Native Hawaiian Programs"
institution = "University of Hawai'i at Manoa"
location = "Honolulu, Hawai'i"
tel = "(808) 375-9125"
email = "nmkahanu@hawaii.edu"
email2 = "mooinanea22@gmail.com"
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Noelle has been a frequent presenter and moderator at WMA, with more than 20 years of experience in the museum field. She is connected in one way or another to all the panelists and seeks to deeply engage in an important conversation around mentorship and indigeneity."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Kamalu "
last_name = "du Preez"
title = "Cultural Resource Specialist"
institution = "Bishop Museum"
location = "Honolulu, HI"
tel = "(808) 847-8267"
email = "kamalu@bishopmuseum.org"
email2 = "mooinanea22@gmail.com"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Kamalu du Preez (kanaka 'oiwi) has over 20 years of experience working at
Bishop Museum. She has mentored numerous individuals, both native and not, over the years. She will be sharing her mentorship practices, which extent to both panelist Halena-Kapuni Reynolds and Hattie Hapai."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Halena "
last_name = "Kapuni-Reynolds"
title = "Graduate Assistant, Museum Studies Graduate Certificate Program"
institution = "University of Hawai'i at Manoa"
location = "Hilo, HI"
tel = "(808) 956-8570"
email = "halena@hawaii.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Halena Kapuni-Reynolds is an emerging indigenous museum professional and current graduate student. He was a PEM Native American Fellow who has also interned with several museums, including the Bishop Museum (under Kamalu du Preez), Lyman Museum in Hilo, and the Denver Museum of Natural History.  He also ran a summer institute for several years, serving as a mentor to dozens of Native Hawaiian students."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Hattie"
last_name = "Hapai"
title = "Mellon Fellow"
institution = "Peabody Essex Museum"
location = "Salem, MA"
tel = "(808) 222-0053"
email = "hattie_hapai@pem.org"
email2 = "hattiehapai.17@gmail.com"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Hattie will share her experiences, having been mentored by two of the panelists. After an internship at Bishop Museum under Kamalu du Preez, Hattie participated in PEM's Native American Fellowship Program under Jennifer Himmelreich. She will share how her experiences with these mentors altered her goals and set her on a path in the museum field."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Jennifer "
last_name = "Himmelreich"
title = "Native American Fellowship Program Manager"
institution = "Peabody Essex Museum"
location = "Salem, MA"
tel = "866-745-1876"
email = "nafellowship@pem.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """As Program Manager, Jennifer Himmelreich draws on her own experiences as an Alumna of the 2011 Native American Fellowship program at PEM and other fellowships. Her decade-long professional work with tribal museums, cultural heritage institutions, and mainstream oral history and mapping projects, helps guide current Fellows, Alumni, and future participants through each stage of the program while implementing its day-to-day operations. She is currently a mentor to Hattie Hapai."""
+++
**This session will highlight the mentorship experiences of four indigenous museum professions who have at various times served as mentors and mentees. What makes a good mentor? What qualities should they have? And when it comes to indigenous staff, are different notions of care involved? Panelists span the gamut from a recent Mellon fellow to a 20+ year museum professional, from a graduate student to the director of a renowned Native American Fellowship program. **
