+++
ID = "WMA2022_41"
last_modified = "2020-07-22T17:08:52.000Z"
session_title = "Institutional Knowledge in Exhibit Design, Development, and Installation"
session_track_id = "Visitor Experience"
round_number = "Round 1"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Exhibit design and execution are often behind the scenes and not often examined, but enhancing these areas means a stronger product for our visitors."""
session_objectives = """Institutional Knowledge
The session will promote the importance of maintaining institutional knowledge. In addition, several real world techniques will be examined that the audience can execute the day after the conference.

Staffing
Experienced staff with high morale means fewer mistakes are made, the development and installation is quicker, and the end result is highly engaging for the visitor. The audience will walk away with actionable ideas for onboarding new staff as well as retaining experienced staff. Maintaining high morale is a central part of increasing the capacity of staff, fun and quirky ways of raising morale will be discussed.

Innovation
The audience will learn the prerequisites to innovation and learn to recognize opportunities to help it flourish. Without the building blocks of previous work history (the institutional knowledge) coupled with experienced and efficient staff innovation can stall. Additionally the audience will come away with methods of fostering and encouraging innovation in a time and budget friendly way."""
session_engagement = """The audience is encouraged to ask questions of the panelists after their presentations. There will actionable techniques and ideas as take aways, the audience should come prepared to take a lot of notes. We intend to make the Powerpoint available via email upon request."""
session_scalability = """The session will cover issues faced by every museum size and type. Maintaining institutional knowledge and fostering innovation is a perennial problem for any business, but this session will focus solely on the design and installation of exhibits. Panelists for the session are from three museums types, each working with a different sized budget.
"""
audience = [ "technology","general","education" ]
level = [ "EMP","midcareer","seniorlevel","general" ]
other_comments = """This session will focus on those that take the given exhibit topic or concept and take it across the finish line. This includes the design of the exhibit, the installation, as well as the educational components that give context to what the visitor experiences. This session seeks to help its audience retain the successes and failures along the way so they can build from and innovate on that knowledge."""
theme_relationship = """How do you move FORWARD without slipping backward? You retain your institutional knowledge and you encourage innovation. That may mean an improved documentation systems, an enhanced staff orientation, or an improvement to the culture and morale."""
theme_comments = """I have some soft Yes' for the panel right now. I'm willing to merge if it makes for a better WMA 2020.
"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [ "jacquelinecabrera" ]
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Matt"
last_name = "Isble"
title = "Director of Exhibition Design & Founder of MuseumTrade.org"
institution = "Crocker Art Museum"
location = "Sacramento"
tel = "916-808-1013"
email = "misble@crockerartmuseum.org"
email2 = "admin@museumtrade.org"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """As moderator I will introduce the panel and the main concepts. As the discussion moves along I may ask the panelists to dive deeper if I think a word or concept needs unpacking. As a lead into the Q&A portion with the audience I'll profess my shortcomings (related to the topic) to the panelist to see if they have thoughts or solutions. I'll open it up to the audience for their burning questions. I'll have a lighting round of questions for the panelists in my pocket if we need filler at the end."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Somya"
last_name = "Singh"
title = "Director of Exhibits"
institution = "Portland Cihildre's Museum"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503-471-9927"
email = "ssingh@portlandcm.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Somya has many years of experience in multiple museum types. From her current role at the Portland Children's Museum, to the exhibition design department at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, to the McWane Science Center. She can speak practically about working in a wide range of museums."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Ben"
last_name = "Wildenhaus"
title = "Head Preparator and Exhibition Designer"
institution = "Tacoma Art Museum"
location = "Tacoma, WA"
tel = "253-272-4258 ext.3025"
email = "bwildenhaus@TacomaArtMuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """With more than a decade in mid sized art museums, Ben's deep knowledge of exhibition design and installation are further enhanced by experience opening two new museum wings."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Dave"
last_name = "Laubenthal"
title = "Creative Director"
institution = "Oregon Museum of Science and Industry"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503-797-4502"
email = "DLaubenthal@omsi.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Dave brings expertise from a Science museum with a strong background in design."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Explore institutional knowledge as it relates to exhibit design, development, and execution in this session with panelists from art, children’s, and science museums. Come learn about techniques for cataloging and sharing institutional knowledge, training and maintaining staff, and how to foster a culture of innovation.
