+++
ID = "WMA2022_65"
last_modified = "2020-07-22T17:08:52.000Z"
session_title = "Connecting our Community Through Unique Partnerships"
session_track_id = "Community Engagement"
round_number = "Round 1"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Utilizing unconventional partnerships to reach goals through projects or programming is something that can help move museums forward."""
session_objectives = """The first objective will be to have the participants assess their current and future plans for projects. They will think about the goals for their projects, how they plan to reach those goals, and how they can incorporate new partnerships through those projects. During this brainstorming session, participants will also think back on past projects to reflect on how they can work in different ways to achieve goals by using partnerships.
The second objective will be for the participants to begin compiling a list of partners, even if they are unsure of how they might work together. By first identifying possible partners, they can begin to move forward with thinking of innovative ways to involve those possible partners in their projects.
The third objective will be to work together in their small groups, and with the presenters, to formulate ways to involve these partners in a manner that would benefit both organizations. They will devise plans that will help facilitate conversations around the possible outcomes."""
session_engagement = """While the first portion of the session will be the presenters speaking, the second and third portions will involve the audience participating in working as a group to go through the worksheet and then working in their small groups to brainstorm ideas. Once they have compiled some ideas in their small groups they will be encouraged to share out with the group and ask questions."""
session_scalability = """This would be most suitable for smaller to midsize institutions and offers ideas on completing projects successfully with limited resources.
"""
audience = [ "curators","development","general" ]
level = [ "general" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This session will create conversations concerning the benefits of innovative partnerships. As inclusiveness, accessibility, and innovation are at the forefront of museums, working to include unconventional partners in projects is a way that museums can move forward with these concepts. Many smaller museums are facing the same circumstances of a small budget and a small staff. This session will help demonstrate the possibilities of successfully partnering with other organizations on projects with limited resources."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [ "amberbeierle" ]
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Amy "
last_name = "King"
title = "Museum Curator"
institution = "Tulare County Museum"
location = "Visalia, CA"
tel = "559-308-6881"
email = "aking1@co.tulare.ca.us"
email2 = "amylynn.king@gmail.com"
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """I have been working as a curator with the Tulare County Museum for almost 10 years and have experience in creating new and unique partnerships throughout Tulare County. In my time with the museum I have worked to create these partnerships with issues many small museums face such as a small budget, small staff, and limited resources. I have managed to expand those resources and build meaningful connections in the community through innovative partnerships. I plan to speak to the projects I have been able to do that with and how others can apply that in their institutions."""

[moderator]
first_name = "Karie"
last_name = "Burch"
title = "Director of Development"
institution = "Portland Art Museum"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503-276-4311"
email = "karie.burch@pam.org"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """The Portland Art Museum has a long history as it is the oldest museum in the Pacific Northwest in late 1892. It has seen many changes and as the Director of Development, Karie is charged with bringing the museum forward into modern times through innovative programming and partnerships. The Portland Art Museum has a long list of community partners, which is in line with the focus of our session: Connecting Your Community Through Unique Partnerships."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Lisa"
last_name = "Monteiro"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Mineral King Preservation Society"
location = "Three Rivers, CA"
tel = "559-561-1000"
email = "lisa@mineralking.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Lisa has experience creating unique partnerships in the 6 years she has been a director of historical organizations. She has experience working with small budgets, staff, and resources and has worked in rural locations. She understands the issues smaller organizations face and knows the impact and power that a successful partnership can bring."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Judy"
last_name = "Margles"
title = "Director"
institution = "Oregon Jewish Museum and Center for Holocaust Education"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503-226-3600"
email = "jmargles@ojmche.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Judy is the director of a museum that has experienced unusual growth in the five years, first a merger resulting in a new mission followed by the acquisition of a permanent home that doubled the size of the institution. Judy will be helpful in discussing how new partnerships and programs  -- high school and college interns for example -- as well as new visioning for enduring programs – an oral history project --  have deepened the engagement of the museum in the community."""

[pres_3]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Unconventional and innovative? Yes, please! The right partnerships can have a huge impact on your organization and community. This workshop will present examples from three museums on how unique partnerships have played a role in successful projects. Even with tight budgets, small staff sizes, and rural locations! In addition, attendees will be allotted time to workshop some ideas through a handout with feedback from the presenters and colleagues. 
