+++
ID = "WMA2022_67"
last_modified = "2020-07-22T17:08:52.000Z"
session_title = "Working Together: An Inclusive Approach to Exhibit Planning and Design"
session_track_id = "Visitor Experience"
round_number = "Round 1"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session delves into the strengths and challenges of using participatory models – co-creation and collaboration – to develop an exhibit grounded in multiple perspectives."""
session_objectives = """1.)	Community engagement and management of stakeholder group.
The session will discuss the importance of community engagement and working with diverse stakeholders.  Corralling the various groups requires tenacity, patience, strategic planning, and constant follow through. An objective of this session is to provide information on what worked, and what didn’t work.

2.)	How to tackle multiple perspectives and differing viewpoints.
Embracing multiple perspectives in a project can, and will, lead to conflicting viewpoints on interpretation. An objective of this session is to discuss how to navigate differing viewpoints while including multiple perspectives.

3.)	How to respond to, or not respond to, negative feedback.
Presenting a fuller, more complete narrative of history (read – the good, the bad, and the ugly) may be challenging for visitors, stakeholders, or staff. An objective of this session is to talk about negative feedback, and strategies to manage it."""
session_engagement = """This session is an open form, allowing for a facilitated group discussion. There will be a brief presentation, followed by opening the floor to attendees to ask panel participant’s questions on the content development process, challenges faced, and lessoned learned.

Resources needed: Computer for powerpoint presentation, projector, and screen"""
session_scalability = """The process followed to develop Experience Oregon can be scaled up or down to fit any size organization. The size of the institution will determine the size of the advisory committee/stakeholder group. Having inspired, resolute staff and/or volunteers, a committed board, and dedicated consultants will be the recipe for success. 
"""
audience = [ "general" ]
level = [ "general" ]
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """For museums and other historic institutions to be forward-thinking and adaptable, recognizing the need to include previously unheard voices in their exhibitions is paramount. Developing Experience Oregon was a co-creative, collaborative undertaking with participants from OHS staff, Oregon Tribes; educators; content specialists; students; historians; community members; and multiple firms from across the country. The exhibition embraces diversity, equity, inclusivity and accessibility."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [ "corygooch" ]
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Helen B"
last_name = "Louise "
title = "Museum Director "
institution = "Oregon Historical Society "
location = "Portland, Oregon "
tel = "503-306-5274"
email = "Helen.Louise@ohs.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """I was the project manager on the Experience Oregon Exhibit"""

[moderator]
first_name = "Andrew "
last_name = "Hamilton "
title = "Content Developer "
institution = "The Design Minds "
location = "Fairfax, VA "
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """Andrew worked closely on the project as the point of contact for The Design Minds"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Darrell"
last_name = "Millner "
title = "Professor Emeritus & Adjunct Professor Black studies department "
institution = "Portland State University "
location = "Portland, Oregon "
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """Darrell was a key member of the stakeholder/advisory committee for the exhibit"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Michael "
last_name = "Lesperance "
title = "Principal/ Content Developer "
institution = "The Design Minds "
location = "Fairfax, VA "
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Mike Lesperance is a principal at The Design Minds and one of the project managers for TDM on this exhibit"""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Robert"
last_name = "Kentta "
title = "Siletz Tribal Cultural Resources Director "
institution = "The Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians "
location = "Siletz, OR "
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """Robert was a key member on the stakeholder/advisory committee for the exhibit"""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Sarah "
last_name = "Newhall "
title = "Board Member "
institution = "Oregon Historical Society "
location = "Portland, OR "
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """Sarah is on the OHS board and was a member of the stakeholder/advisory committee for the exhibit"""
+++
How can museums target, work with, and attract a more diverse audience? This session will explore how the Oregon Historical Society created their core exhibit Experience Oregon using participatory models (co-creation, collaboration) for exhibit development. Panelists will offer steps and strategies on how to include stakeholders to tell a more complete and unbiased story, tips on working with multiple groups, how to address conflicting perspectives, navigating roadblocks along the way, and lesson learned.   
