+++
ID = "WMA2022_69"
last_modified = "2020-07-22T17:08:52.000Z"
session_title = "Is this the only way? Is this the best way? Exploring Options for Museum Professional Training"
session_track_id = "Leadership & Career Path"
round_number = "Round 1"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """In 2007, Nina Simon observed “…education and learning is essential for our field…  But should they happen in a classroom? Is graduate school the best entry for people new to the field?” It’s past time to deepen the options for entry to museum careers."""
session_objectives = """Attendees and session presenters will:
1)	Increase their understanding of at least 4 different models of Museum Professional Training (MPT), both currently in use, or in the case of digital badging, potentially in use in the future.
2)	Evaluate pros and cons of at least 4 models of MPT.
3)	Reflect on their own experiences of and practices with MPT – through their own professional journey, how MPT paradigms have impacted their home institutions, and how they impact the field at large.
4)	Finally through brainstorming and discussions, develop ideas for how the field could apply multiple MPT opportunities which could help the field become more welcoming and inclusive, and what role they could play in expanding the current options for those seeking to enter the profession."""
session_engagement = """We intend the session to start with 4 short (no more than 5 minutes each) introductions to different museum professional training options. We will then ask the audience to breakout into 4 groups to explore the pros/cons of each model. Groups then report back. The final activity is a large group brainstorm/share out of where museum professional training could go in the future."""
session_scalability = """This session is about thinking on museum professional training that moves the field forward, it is not intended to be 'scaled'
"""
audience = [  ]
level = [ "student","EMP","midcareer","seniorlevel" ]
other_comments = """Session Abstract:  For decades “learning on the job” was par for the course in museums, however, since the mid-1990s, obtaining a master’s degree in museum studies or a related discipline, has become the requisite entrance ticket for most positions in museums and heritage organizations. But is this the only way? Is this the best way?
Join colleagues for a directed conversation and brainstorming session exploring alternative ways/visions/approaches to North American museum professional training; ways that are beyond or instead of the graduate M.A.; ways that may help the field become more inclusive and diverse. Some examples that can be discussed include:
•	Apprenticeships like those offered by some United Kingdom museums, which are targeted at young adults (18-25) or older adults reentering the workforce and are commitments of 1 to 3 years, pay a decent living wage with benefits, and often include ways to fulfil certificate course work in museum studies (or a focus in an area of museums, such as collections, finance, HR, IT, etc.) during the apprenticeship.
•	Certification programs that are college-based and online, or non-college based programs such as AASLH's Small Museum Pro, or the Alberta Museums Association's certificate in museum studies.
•	Digital badging with standards set by a national association (AAM, CMA, AASLH, AZA, ASTC, or all of them in agreement).
Let’s discuss these and other ideas."""
theme_relationship = """For decades, we have been both pursuing and promoting a nearly singular model of museum professional training. It’s time to explore new ideas and new models, as those conversations and insights have the potential to move the profession FORWARD in innovate and inclusive ways."""
theme_comments = """If there are recommendations for someone who can speak to museum apprenticeships that are targeted to young adults (not teens) and those reentering the workforce, I'd love to connect with them
"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = [ "sethmargolis" ]
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Keni"
last_name = "Sturgeon"
title = "Executive Director & Adjunct Faculty"
institution = "Wenacthee Valley Museum/University of Oklahoma"
location = "Wenatchee, WA"
tel = "509-888-6242"
email = "ksturgeon@wvmcc.org"
email2 = "sturgeon.keni@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """As a seasoned museum professional, with more than 20 years of experience in museums, and more than 10 years of experience teaching in museum studies programs (in-person and online), I often wonder about the effectiveness of graduate museum studies programs. Are these the best way to gain entry into the field? Is this focus on MA degrees keeping the profession from being more inclusive? How is excluded?  I don’t have all answers, but do have a passion to explore the options and opportunities."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Susan "
last_name = "Spero"
title = "Professor  "
institution = " JFKU Continuing Education "
location = "Novato, CA"
tel = "415.265.8947 "
email = "susanbspero@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """After years of teaching in a traditional graduate museum studies program, Susan currently teaches and leads an alternative, inexpensive program that considers baseline needs and understanding for museum work.  Susan has over 30 years of experience developing and analyzing museum educational experiences and frequently presents at museum conferences. Throughout her career she has cultivated students and emerging professionals, encouraging them to develop agency to make change."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Ben"
last_name = "Fast"
title = "Program Lead - Certificate in Museum Studies Program"
institution = "Alberta Museums Association"
location = "Edmonton, AB "
tel = "780.424.2626 "
email = "learning@museums.ab.ca"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """Ben is a museum and heritage tourism professional focusing on education, innovation, and collaboration through public programs and digital projects. At the Alberta Museum’s Association (AMA), Ben is the Program Lead for Learning Opportunities, with responsibilities that include coordinating and facilitating the AMA’s Certificate in Museum Studies program, and developing and coordinating additional workshops and learning programs. Ben strives to explore multiple perspectives in museum work, build a strong sector for his province, and support emerging professionals as they begin their careers."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Julia "
last_name = "Falkowski"
title = "Content Designer "
institution = "Intuit"
location = "San Diego, CA"
tel = ""
email = "juliadfalkowski@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Although Julia is currently a content designer at Intuit, she has a background in museum technology. She is the author of “What Are Your Credentials? Museums, Education, and Digital Badging”, published April 2018 through Museums and the Web.  While working for the Balboa Park Online Collaborative (Jun 2015 – Oct 2018), Julia oversaw many aspects related to mission-focused digital projects, including  digital strategies with multiple non-profit partners, developing and implemented technology-based education experiences with museum partners,  Julia is interested in the ways content can be used to create community and connections in arts, culture, technology, and beyond."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Since the late 20th century, an MA in museum studies or related discipline, has become the requisite for most museum positions. Is this the only way? Is this the best way?  Join colleagues to explore alternative approaches to North American museum professional training that are beyond/instead of the M.A. and may help the field become more inclusive and diverse. Examples to delve into include:  apprenticeships, certification - college, online, and non-college, and the potential of digital badging with national standards. Let’s discuss these and more.
