+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP77"
sort_id = 77
timestamp = "11/22/2019 18:01:23"
form_email = "anna.pappalardo@ubc.ca"
session_title = "Publishing in Museums Today"
session_desc = """Many museums engage in a publishing program, producing catalogues and material about their exhibitions and collections.  This session will focus on what options are open to museums in terms of publishing, as well as the benefits and challenges of having an active publishing program.  Three museums with different publishing programs and initiatives will share their experiences and Chris Labonte from Figure 1 Publishing will give participants insight into publishing from a publisher’s perspective.  Topics covered will include working with a publisher, managing publications in-house, and digital and community-based digital initiatives.  """
session_track = "Other"
session_track_id = "other"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """There has not been a session on publishing at the WMA in the last ten years. This session will be valuable to museum professionals considering whether and how to publish based on the needs of their particular institution."""
session_objectives = """Participants will learn about the three options open to museums:  self-publish, co-publish, and publish via a press or publisher, as well as trends in publishing as a whole.

They will learn about how to make informed decisions concerning their publishing programs, as well as clarify what they hope to achieve through printing books and other materials.

They will learn about some innovative initiatives to produce digital publications developed in conjunction with communities.
"""
session_engagement = """The session will feature four presentations, followed up a Q&A.  Our goal is to share our experiences with the audience, as well as learn from their feedback and questions.
"""
session_scalability = """Even though our institutions are mid-sized, the panel will provide options that an institution of any size needs to consider when undertaking any publishing venture in terms of budget, resources, distribution, audience etc."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, General Audience"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """With the rise of the digital, there are now more ways to deliver content and information to audiences.  Yet for many museums, traditional printed books and publications continue to be core to their publishing initiatives.  The session will investigate how publishing is changing as we move forward and our audiences’ expectations and interests change."""
theme_comments = """We have presenters and each is keen to participate"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "marendougherty"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Anna"
last_name = "Pappalardo"
title = "Assistant Director, Administration"
institution = "Museum of Anthropology at UBC"
location = "Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z2"
tel = "604 822-8270"
email = "anna.pappalardo@ubc.ca"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Anna has been involved in funding and contractual arrangements for MOA’s publishing initiatives for over 10 years.  This includes a series of hard cover books on MOA’s exhibitions and collections co-published with Figure 1 Publishing.  The Museum also self-publishes and she can speak to how they make decisions about their overall publishing program.  She would moderate and speak at the session."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Chris "
last_name = "Labonte"
title = "Publisher and President"
institution = "Figure 1 Publishing Ltd."
location = "Vancouver, BC"
tel = "778-991-5549"
email = "chris@figure1pub.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Chris is publisher and president of Figure 1 Publishing, one of North America’s finest publishers of high quality illustrated books. Based in Vancouver, Canada, Figure 1 has co-published more than seventy books with private and public galleries and museums across the country, and has distributed, marketed and sold these books via the retail, library and institutional markets throughout the world. Chris has worked in book publishing for close to twenty years, including eleven years with Canadian art book publisher, Douglas & McIntyre. In seven short years, Figure 1 has become Canada’s leading publisher of museum and gallery books.


"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Zoe"
last_name = "Donnell"
title = "Exhibitions and Publications Manager"
institution = "Tacoma Art Museum"
location = "Tacoma, WA"
tel = "253.272.4258 x 3032"
email = "zdonnell@tacomaartmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Tacoma Art Museum has embraced an ambitious publication program over the past ten years. Working within a small staff and  limited budgets the museum has remained committed to print publications, including a series that is devoted to the art and artists of the Pacific Northwest. In addition, TAM has created both large and small-scale exhibition catalogues and collection catalogues, working with multiple book designers and presses in various co-publishing and distribution arrangements. Zoe has been the project manager for these publications, negotiating publication contracts, maintaining production schedules, shepherding the publication through galleys, and orchestrating publication shipping and storage on-site."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Sarah S."
last_name = "Wilson"
title = "Director of Education"
institution = "Autry Museum of the American West"
location = "Los Angeles, California"
tel = "323.495.4309"
email = "swilson@theautry.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Sarah has worked on exhibition-related and education-related publications for the Autry Museum of the American West. She edited the three issues of the Citizen Journalism Project, an education outreach program for the Autry’s La Raza exhibition. She has also worked on a deliberation guide for middle school and high school students, as well as gallery guides for exhibitions. """

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Many museums engage in a publishing program, producing catalogues and material about their exhibitions and collections.  This session will focus on what options are open to museums in terms of publishing, as well as the benefits and challenges of having an active publishing program.  Three museums with different publishing programs and initiatives will share their experiences and Chris Labonte from Figure 1 Publishing will give participants insight into publishing from a publisher’s perspective.  Topics covered will include working with a publisher, managing publications in-house, and digital and community-based digital initiatives.  