+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP32"
timestamp = "11/21/2019 17:38:48"
form_email = "katrina@worldofspeed.org"
session_title = "Working Across Department Aisles: Coordinating Goals to Build Successful Programming"
session_desc = """To provide successful programming engaging multiple audiences, museum departments can coordinate their relating goals, utilizing and building off of one another in order to maximize a program’s success. Using their recent exhibit Andretti: Racing Royalty and the Archives Discovery Happy Hour members event as touchstones, World of Speed staff share how their department’s actions from coordinated members activities to exhibit-based fundraising events developed in tandem and how multi-department engagement was vital to their success. """
session_track = "Community Engagement"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """A rare opportunity to hear multiple perspective from within one institution, it covers multiple aspects and departments, including collections, funding, membership, exhibits, education, and marketing."""
session_objectives = """1.	Provide examples of how program goals can be strengthened through engagement beyond one’s own department, working in tandem rather than at odds.
-	Participants come away with clear links between departments and how these links can be activated to strengthen programming.
2.	Offer insights into the interconnection between departments and how museums can move away from silo project management to encompass wider staff involvement.
-	Participants come away with possible actions that can be taken to engage or build collaboration and dialogue between departments that can strengthen programming.
3.	Relay a range of department resources available to make programming known and therefore engaged in participation whether to the public, members, funders, donors, and community supporters.
-	Participants come away with a wider understanding of what departments can offer in building programming participation and support.
"""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Registrars, Marketing & Communications (Including Social Media), Events Planning, Development/Membership, General Audience"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """The session is intended for senior staff, managers, and museum professionals of all departments working towards building successful programs by utilizing cross-department engagement and coordination. """
theme_relationship = """The session touches on multiple elements of the 2020 theme by reflecting on staff culture, moving away from siloed programming towards coordinated department program building; the use of technology across departments in building and supporting programming; providing unique hands-on collections engagement while maintaining preservation standards; expanding the importance of partnership not just with outside partners but focusing internally as well, and further engaging our mission and values by working in coordination with one another. """
theme_comments = """Since the base of the session is the presentation of multiple angles from within one organization, we are interested in keeping to presenters from within our museum. However, if another session proposal is specifically looking to cover cross-department coordination in programming, we’d be open to options. """
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "arielweintraub"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Katrina"
last_name = "O'Brien"
title = "Head of Archives & Collections"
institution = "World of Speed"
location = "Wilsonville, OR"
tel = "9712261681"
email = "katrina@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = "katrinatobrien@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """I will introduce each presenter, give one of the presentations, and run the closing Q&A section. // Why has this person been included as a presenter in this panel? Katrina heads the Archives & Collections department with a focus on collection development, donors, and engagement, as well as leading cross-department projects such as the accreditation team and the institutional records initiative. She has worked with Development offering Archives-focused members events, coordinated activities and resources along with collection items with the Exhibits team, and provides content for Marketing projects. """

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Corinne"
last_name = "Rupp"
title = "Membership Manager"
institution = "World of Speed"
location = "Wilsonville, OR"
tel = "503.563.6436"
email = "corinne@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As Membership Manager, Corinne is vital in building up and engaging audiences and supporters of the museum for member-specific and public programs, and pulling together membership metrics relating to these that can impact museum offerings. She hosted an exhibit opening member event and then the VIP dinner in relation to the new Andretti: Racing Royalty exhibit. She also partnered with Archives & Collection in producing the Archives Discovery Happy Hour event. """

[pres_2]
first_name = "Erin "
last_name = "Bledy"
title = "Marketing Manager"
institution = "World of Speed"
location = "Wilsonville, OR"
tel = "503.563.6444 x207"
email = "erinb@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As Marketing Manager, Erin covers publicity, social media, advertising and all else that gets the word out there about the museum, its programs, and its brand. As examples of cross-department coordination, she led the production of videos to be included in the exhibit Andretti: Racing Royalty, and produced a public celebrity event and car show in coordination with the exhibit’s opening. """

[pres_3]
first_name = "Kelly "
last_name = "Harms"
title = "Grant Writer"
institution = "World of Speed"
location = "Wilsonville, OR"
tel = "503.563.6444 x242"
email = "kelly@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As Grant Writer, Kelly works to build the story for each of the museum's core mission programs (Education, Archive, Exhibits) in a larger fundraising effort to sustain the museum. As part of the Accreditation team, she helps run multi-dept discussions around museum goals and build relationships between departments. Kelly also wrote content for interpretive panels throughout the Andretti exhibit."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Ron "
last_name = "Huegli"
title = "Curator"
institution = "World of Speed"
location = "Wilsonville, OR"
tel = ""
email = "ron@worldofspeed.org"
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """As Curator and co-head of Exhibits department (with the Exhibit Developer), Ron’s main focus is in building out and managing the collection of loaned vehicles on display for gallery exhibits; he also run the museum’s Hall of Fame and provides content for social media and public engagement events. Ron was instrumental in developing the Andretti: Racing Royalty exhibit and related events in coordination with other departments."""
+++
To provide successful programming engaging multiple audiences, museum departments can coordinate their relating goals, utilizing and building off of one another in order to maximize a program’s success. Using their recent exhibit Andretti: Racing Royalty and the Archives Discovery Happy Hour members event as touchstones, World of Speed staff share how their department’s actions from coordinated members activities to exhibit-based fundraising events developed in tandem and how multi-department engagement was vital to their success. 