+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP31"
last_modified = "2020-05-13T00:04:37.000Z"
session_title = "Becoming Hip: Music at Your Museum"
session_desc = """How do you make museums cool? Include music! Discover strategies for building and reaching new audiences by incorporating music in exhibits, programming and collecting practices. Ranging from the earliest sounds to Hip Hop, music connects people in many ways and can be a strategy to engage a diverse array of community members in your museum. Start planning how you can incorporate music at this session."""
session_track = "Visitor Experience"
session_track_id = "recRPhS6vhktYR8ST"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session will suggest ways museums can extend beyond their normal exhibit and programming boxes to find new ways to connect with community and audiences through music and pop culture."""
session_objectives = """1.	The themes of music and pop culture will open many new potential avenues of engaging community.<br>2.	Costs and equipment needs will be detailed<br>3.	Strategies for including music and pop culture themes to engage new audiences will be shared. These touch on the areas of exhibits, collections and programming.<br>4.	Use a worksheet to begin planning how your museum can connect to its music or pop culture scene during the session.<br>5.	Above all, learn that you can do it, building from small steps."""
session_engagement = """Start and end with music - live if possible or audio/visual presentation of performance at the museum footage<br>Have participants with a partner and provided worksheet, begin considering ways of incorporating the ideas into their own museum practices, facilitated by panelists.<br>Have participants share other strategies, along with providing time for Q&A"""
session_scalability = """Presenters will be from small and mid-sized museums; examples and methods shared by both. """
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians"
level = "Emerging Professional,Mid-Career,Senior Level"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This session will suggest new best practices to propel your museum forward. It will provide strategies to help elevate your museum within your community. It shows ways of connecting to new and diverse audiences."""
theme_comments = """We have 2 confirmed and 1 pending from Seattle but would be interested in Oregon based institution participating if applicable. Would consider merging with another session.

Pop culture and music can bring in a whole new audience, particular in history museums. The presenters are from small and mid-sized organizations who know how to work on shoe-string budgets and in partnership with others. Collaborating with community is key to success in exhibits and collecting. Strategies will be shared."""
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "sethmargolis"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Brenda"
last_name = "Abney"
title = "Manager"
institution = "Tempe Arts & Culture"
location = "Tempe, Arizona"
tel = "480-350-5105"
email = "brendaab@tempe.gov"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """Familiarity with material; experience moderating panels at the local and state level; well-organized and able keep meetings on track"""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Dan "
last_name = "Miller"
title = "Senior Curator of Exhibits"
institution = "Tempe History Museum"
location = "Tempe, Arizona"
tel = "480-350-5115"
email = "dan_miller@tempe.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Coordinates music performance series for museum; responsible for production and selection; chairs program committee of staff and community members;  incorporates music in exhibitions as part of team."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Josh"
last_name = "Roffler"
title = "Senior Curator of Collections"
institution = "Tempe History Museum"
location = "Tempe, Arizona"
tel = "480-350-5176"
email = "joshua_roffler@tempe.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Curated exhibit “The Tempe Sound” about the local music scene; collects music memorabilia from the community for the museum collection; collaborates with community members on collecting and documenting music history."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Pending"
last_name = "Pending"
title = "Public Programs "
institution = "MOHAI"
location = "Seattle, Washington"
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """Reached out to Museum of History and Industry in Seattle to have representative on the panel based on their exhibition, “The Legacy of Hip Hop” and associated programming / collecting activities."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
How do you make museums cool? Include music! Discover strategies for building and reaching new audiences by incorporating music in exhibits, programming and collecting practices. Ranging from the earliest sounds to Hip Hop, music connects people in many ways and can be a strategy to engage a diverse array of community members in your museum. Start planning how you can incorporate music at this session.