+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP37"
sort_id = 37
timestamp = "11/22/2019 10:55:38"
form_email = "julie.peterson@state.co.us"
session_title = "Authentic Hope: Empowering Visitors to Make an Impact"
session_desc = """What’s Your Story? at the History Colorado Center was designed with the explicit goal of empowering visitors– particularly middle and high school students– to see themselves as being able to make an impact. While looking to historical change-makers for inspiration, the exhibit asks visitors to step up in their communities today. This session discusses the idea of building an exhibit around an authentic concept and explores strategies and methods to encourage forward-thinking action."""
session_track = "Visitor Experience"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Session discusses the innovative approach of building an exhibit based on an abstract concept rather than a topic. It replicates the exhibit experience for participants. """
session_objectives = """
This session uses What’s Your Story? as a case study to explore how building an exhibit around a key concept or idea can be a powerful approach. We will also share successful techniques for empowering visitors, and encourage participants to reflect on how these lessons can be applied to their own institutions and professional contexts.

Participants will understand the power of building an exhibit around the “WHY” rather than the “WHAT.” They will learn how to develop an abstract concept into a physical museum exhibit. This session will show how a museum or cultural institution might conceive of or connect to an authentic concept, and will explore how visitor experience goals, as well as the key audience the exhibit was designed for, can inform the development process.

Participants will see how, throughout the collaborative development process, the exhibit team managed to define intentions and stay true to exhibit goals, even while facing challenges. They will come away with strategies and methods for empowering visitors, understanding and engaging key audiences, establishing a clear exhibit development and decision-making process, and overcoming challenges– both conceptual and logistical.

This session will encourage self-reflection. With active discussion and engagement throughout, and by drawing on evaluation data from What’s Your Story?,  participants will be able to consider how this work relates to their goals and authentic hopes for their own institutions.
"""
session_engagement = """The session will replicate the visitor experience in What’s Your Story? with activities including:
- “Finding Your Spark” worksheet activity
- Brainstorming concepts that resonate with participants’ goals
- Group discussion (throughout session vs. final Q & A)
- Poster-making activity

Resources needed:
- Sticky notes and pens
- Large paper/ poster boards
- Paper and poster-making tools (markers, stickers, scissors, glue sticks, colored pencils, collage images)
- Wifi and screen to project presentation
"""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Registrars, General Audience, Museum professionals who are interested in social justice, engaging youth, using technology in the museum space"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """Since working on—and perhaps BECAUSE of working on— What’s Your Story?, we have seen a trend in exhibits that seek to inspire young people to action. We hope that sharing our experience with developing this exhibit will encourage other institutions to embrace the idea that we can all contribute to a better future. We believe that museums can be places for not only learning and dialogue, but self-reflection and growth—on a personal and societal level.
"""
theme_comments = """We're really excited about the possibility of presenting at WMA. I am happy to answer any questions you might have about this proposal or our participation in the conference."""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "peterkukla"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Julie"
last_name = "Peterson"
title = "  Public Historian & Exhibit Developer"
institution = "History Colorado"
location = "Denver"
tel = "3038663629"
email = "julie.peterson@state.co.us"
email2 = "juliegpeterson@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """ Julie P. was the lead developer for History Colorado Center’s exhibition, What’s Your Story? which is the subject of our session panel"""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Julie"
last_name = "Sayigh"
title = "Principal"
institution = "  EDX Exhibits"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "(206) 528-5556"
email = "julie@edxseattle.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Julie S. was the project manager and lead designer from EDX for What’s Your Story?"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Diana "
last_name = "Bonfilio"
title = " Director of Graphic Design"
institution = "Richard Lewis Media Group"
location = "Watertown, MA"
tel = "(617) 926-8300 x222"
email = "diana@rlmg.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """
Diana was the project manager and designer from RLMG for What’s Your Story?"""

[pres_3]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
What’s Your Story? at the History Colorado Center was designed with the explicit goal of empowering visitors– particularly middle and high school students– to see themselves as being able to make an impact. While looking to historical change-makers for inspiration, the exhibit asks visitors to step up in their communities today. This session discusses the idea of building an exhibit around an authentic concept and explores strategies and methods to encourage forward-thinking action.