+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP109"
sort_id = 109
timestamp = "12/3/2019 16:02:21"
form_email = "greg@w108multimedia.com"
session_title = "Collaboration is Messy"
session_desc = """Co-creation is a powerful approach for museums producing dynamic work, but it can be complicated! While creative projects benefit from including a diverse group of perspectives and skill sets, how can we encourage each team member’s contributions within frameworks that keep everyone moving forward, together? Join team representatives as they present three different multimedia project case studies to launch a deeper exploration of various philosophies, methodologies, and tools employed in collective problem-solving."""
session_track = "Business"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Co-creating multimedia projects--even if it’s with a familiar team--always presents new challenges and opportunities for improving collaboration."""
session_objectives = """This session examines strategies for cultivating environments where teams are encouraged to overcome interpretation and design challenges faced when producing multimedia projects.  Through case study presentations, ensuing panelist discussion, and audience participation, panelists dive into methodologies inspired by the following topics: saving space for risk-taking; shaping a collective idea; strategically balancing experimentation with stakeholder review; and building team trust and camaraderie. By exploring the creative process through different lenses, attendees will understand how they can apply these philosophies within their own teams.  In addition to theoretical applications, the case studies also provide project tools and specific examples that led to successful or productive outcomes. These takeaways include actual processes, workflows, and ideas for team member inclusion. Attendees will feel welcome to take and adapt these approaches.       By candidly engaging in the nuances of creative collaboration, and discovering that it presents similar stressors and challenges across a diversity of disciplines and institutions, attendees will leave the session feeling a part of a community where they find inspiration and support. """
session_engagement = """Presenters will share their experiences in an open and honest way. Demonstrating the core notion that “a good idea can come from anywhere”, attendees will feel empowered to contribute by asking questions and digging deeper into points that resonate with them. The presence of additional case study team members who can chime into the discussion will further blur the boundary between the panel and the audience enabling a more inclusive and lively group conversation."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Marketing & Communications (Including Social Media), Technology, General Audience, Creative team members: designers, digital media producers and technologists, content specialists or curators, writers, project managers, directors "
level = "Student, Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """We're very excited about the presenters and moderator we've included and are confident that all of them can attend WMA and participate in this session if it's accepted.  However, Megan Dickerson (presenter) and Sarah Crawford (moderator) have not yet determined if their respective organizations have the budget to send them to the conference.  In the event that either of them cannot attend, we'd be grateful for any assistance or advice that could help us fill in the gaps!"""
theme_relationship = """FORWARD manifests in the case study content and deeper exploration of tools and methods to inspire inclusive, supportive, and trusting team environments. By representing a diversity of multimedia projects, the discussion is anchored by innovative production examples. Collective, creative problem-solving places value upon different perspectives, and with the right structures and processes in place, promotes original ideas and impactful museum experiences."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "marendougherty"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Greg"
last_name = "Mercer"
title = "Creative Director"
institution = "Workshop 108"
location = "Boise, ID"
tel = "3123153433"
email = "greg@w108multimedia.com"
email2 = "gregorymercer@gmail.com"
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Building off of processes that shaped successful projects during his time at the Field Museum, Greg Mercer teams up with museums and cultural institutions to co-create multimedia experiences. For his recent partnership with The Morton Arboretum, he led an interdisciplinary team to conceptualize and produce The Canopy Career Chronicles, a web-based comic that inspires high school students to explore STEM careers through eight unique narratives. This case study demonstrates the winding path needed to focus their approach along with efforts to facilitate teammate contributions across three time zones."""

[moderator]
first_name = "Sarah"
last_name = "Crawford"
title = "Senior Manager, Exhibition Design and Development"
institution = "NHM"
location = "Los Angeles, CA"
tel = "810.240.5421"
email = "scrawford@nhm.org"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """Sarah possesses a unique toolkit as an exhibition developer with a strong grasp of the design process. She’s been an asset to teams working with diverse content across a variety of institutions: Peggy Notebaert Nature Museum, Field Museum, San Diego Museum of Man, and NHM. Sarah launched and emceed the successful series, “That Belongs in a Museum”, where the public was invited to a casual Chicago venue to share stories hidden within both personal treasures and seemingly ordinary objects. With a lively personality, a love of museums, and a passion for storytelling, Sarah will undoubtedly lead an engaging discussion. """

[pres_1]
first_name = "Tim"
last_name = "Lee"
title = "Exhibit Manager and Senior Exhibit Designer"
institution = "Natural History Museum of Utah"
location = "Salt Lake City, UT"
tel = "n/a"
email = "tlee@umnh.utah.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Tim, NHMU’s Exhibit Manager and Senior Exhibit Designer, genuinely loves to collaborate at all levels of his work, from solving design riddles with his internal team to bigger-picture ideation with outside partners. For this session, he will share the “Diorama 2.0” project from the museum’s newly-opened Nature All Around Us exhibition (www.nhmu.utah.edu/museum/exhibits/nature-all-around-us). Projection mapping green screen animal footage into realistic 3D scenes, Diorama 2.0 presents an illuminating example of community co-creation as well as formidable design and production challenges (many of which stemmed from collaborating with animals) the team ably worked to overcome."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Megan"
last_name = "Dickerson"
title = "Senior Manager of Exhibitions"
institution = "New Children’s Museum"
location = "San Diego, CA"
tel = "n/a"
email = "mdickerson@thinkplaycreate.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """Megan leads NCM’s creative teams as the Senior Exhibitions Manager. She and her team fully embrace the idea that collaboration is messy and use it as a tool within their process--this is especially evident in their commitment to rapidly prototype concepts and designs with visitors. Her presentation will showcase the award-winning The Wonder Sound exhibition (www.thewondersound.com) as well as the museum’s general community-based artist residency approach it takes to developing new installations. Megan will confirm or decline her participation as soon as her 2020 conference budget is finalized."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Greg"
last_name = "Mercer"
title = "Creative Director"
institution = "Workshop 108"
location = "Boise, ID"
tel = "312.315.3433"
email = "greg@w108multimedia.com"
email2 = "gregorymercer@gmail.com"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Building off of processes that shaped successful projects during his time at the Field Museum, Greg Mercer teams up with museums and cultural institutions to co-create multimedia experiences. For his recent partnership with The Morton Arboretum, he led an interdisciplinary team to conceptualize and produce The Canopy Career Chronicles (www.mortonarb.org/canopy-career-chronicles), a web-based comic that inspires high school students to explore STEM careers through eight unique narratives. This case study demonstrates the winding path needed to focus their approach along with efforts to facilitate teammate contributions across three time zones."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Co-creation is a powerful approach for museums producing dynamic work, but it can be complicated! While creative projects benefit from including a diverse group of perspectives and skill sets, how can we encourage each team member’s contributions within frameworks that keep everyone moving forward, together? Join team representatives as they present three different multimedia project case studies to launch a deeper exploration of various philosophies, methodologies, and tools employed in collective problem-solving.