+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP34"
timestamp = "11/21/2019 18:24:03"
form_email = "msuplee@gmail.com"
session_title = "Open Doors:  Making All Feel Welcome at a Niche Museum. "
session_desc = """Some museums naturally serve a very focused demographic in their region. Join representatives from 3 “niche” museums to learn about how they strive to stay true to their mission and core audience while making sure that all in their region feel a sense of welcome and belonging. This session will identify challenges and strategies to creating a welcoming environment and sense of belonging when your museum has a tight mission that serves a specific audience."""
session_track = "Visitor Experience"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session tackles the difficult question of how niche museums welcome others into a largely mono-cultural community without compromising topical interests or diluting authenticity."""
session_objectives = """●	Empower other museums to embrace an “all are welcome” mentality.
●	Identify challenges unique to “niche” museums that serve a very specific audience by default.
●	Share strategies for creating welcome and belonging outside of a core-cultural audience.
"""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Marketing & Communications (Including Social Media), Events Planning, General Audience, Professionals working within museum that are seeking to extend their reach into new audience or communities"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """●	Refining mission statements and values
●	Embracing diversity, equity, inclusivity, and accessibility
●	I also think this session fits with the theme of FORWARD in that it may provide insights into how we can build bridges in an era where people across the globe are becoming more and more polarized and insular.
"""
theme_comments = """I have reached out to several people to be panelists. Currently, Gravity Goldberg (Director of Public Programs and Visitor Experience, The Contemporary Jewish Museum) has confirmed her interest and availability to be a panelist. Phillip Thompson (Executive Director, Idaho Black History Museum) has expressed interest. I have a few other irons in the fire as well. I am trying to find 3 panelists that will cover a few different perspectives on this topic as well as being representative of different types of museums at various scales. One area I am lacking panelists is around the issue of creating welcome beyond a group of core enthusiasts. (For our museum that might mean making "non-car-people" feel a sense of welcome and belonging at our motorsports museum.) I am open to suggestions and ideas for additional panelists that have had successes at their museum that they can share."""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "dougjenzen"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Matthew"
last_name = "Suplee"
title = "Exhibit Developer"
institution = "World of Speed"
location = "WILSONVILLE"
tel = "(225) 978-5554"
email = "matt@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = "msuplee@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """I will mostly be moderating but I was planning on briefly presenting some of the challenges that our motorsports museum faces: bringing Diversity, Equity, Accessibility and Inclusion to a largely mono-cultural audience; creating appeal beyond just the motorsports community, and bridging diverse (and sometimes conflicting) socio-political viewpoints. I was going to use those challenges to set the stage for the panelists to present success stories from their museums on those fronts."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Gravity"
last_name = "Goldberg"
title = "Director of Public Programs and Visitor Experience"
institution = "The Contemporary Jewish Museum"
location = "San Francisco, CA"
tel = ""
email = "ggoldberg@thecjm.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Successes in making non-Jewish persons feel welcome and included at CJM."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Phillip"
last_name = "Thompson"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Idaho Black History Museum"
location = "Boise, ID"
tel = "298-340-4448"
email = "phillip.thompson@p-johnson.net"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """I need to talk to him more but I am under the impression that he has worked to share the experience of being a black Idahoan in a region where the vast majority of people are not persons of color. I am curious how he has made inroads and what techniques he uses to reach people."""

[pres_3]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Some museums naturally serve a very focused demographic in their region. Join representatives from 3 “niche” museums to learn about how they strive to stay true to their mission and core audience while making sure that all in their region feel a sense of welcome and belonging. This session will identify challenges and strategies to creating a welcoming environment and sense of belonging when your museum has a tight mission that serves a specific audience.