+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP95"
timestamp = "11/26/2019 12:35:36"
form_email = "alissa.seattle.architect@gmail.com"
session_title = "High Risk, High Stakes, High Excitement: What is the future of risk-taking in museums?"
session_desc = """Risk-taking is an important part of human development, and can lead to significant learning opportunities. Whether physical, emotional or intellectual, the decisions around taking risks depend on the environment. What for some visitors may seem high-stakes or high-risk, may for others be a welcome challenge. What does it mean to encourage museum visitors, especially kids, to take risks in museums? Should we create exhibits and encourage interactions that help visitors develop decision-making and risk-assessment skills? """
session_track = "Visitor Experience"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Risk is only rarely discussed in museum exhibit and program design, yet it is inextricable from frequently mentioned concepts of citizenship, learning and critical thought."""
session_objectives = """This session is meant to raise an important topic that can touch on many of the most significant social and cultural issues of our time. Attendees will be encouraged to think about how play, emotional engagement, parenting, controversial topics, scientific discoveries, and issues of gender, social justice and access might provide the context for experiences that visitors may see as posing a physical, emotional or intellectual challenge. We will discuss what makes an exhibit seem “risky” and what the “stakes” might be for visitors engaging with these exhibits. In addition:

Session attendees will:
1.      Consider the idea of risk in museum environments, and think about how their organizations or facilities might engage with risk. .
2.      Assess decisions related to how other museums grapple with, and ultimately take on, the idea of risk.
3.      Be inspired by examples of exhibits, programs and installations that allow visitors (and staff) to take risks in the museum environment.
"""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, General Audience, Exhibit Design, Programs, Education"
level = "Student, Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """We are open to developing this topic in a less conventional format than the traditional panel. We have ideas about how to create a highly interactive session, bringing the idea of risk and comfort to the session itself. This session may be of most interest to those planning exhibits, programs, installations or events for their museums, but it will also be a powerful topic for others. """
theme_relationship = """The session is about how we move FORWARD with courage, clarity and conviction to bring challenges, new ideas, and engagement to visitors. Museums (and museum visitors and staff) will need to take some risks to remain relevant and compelling in the future, and also to remain competitive with with new trends in immersive and interactive commercial spaces. There are also always-evolving expectations with regard to the "tough topics" with which society is grappling.
"""
theme_comments = """We are open to suggestions, though we have an interesting and diverse initial panel list. Happy to discuss!"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "marendougherty"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Alissa"
last_name = "Rupp"
title = "Principal "
institution = "FRAME | Architecture and Planning"
location = "WA"
tel = "2062347217"
email = "alissa.seattle.architect@gmail.com"
email2 = "alissa.rupp@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Alissa brings over 20  years of experience in the design of engaging, immersive and cohesive museum experiences.  She is a skilled facilitator and will ensure that the session is engaging, interactive and informative for a wide range of museum professionals. """

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Putter"
last_name = "Bert"
title = "President / CEO"
institution = "KidsQuest Children's Museum"
location = "Bellevue, WA"
tel = "425 637 8100"
email = "putter@kidsquestmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Putter brings decades of experience leading and building children’s museums, and has thought deeply about how to welcome families into museum environments. She encourages visitors to learn, stretch, and engage with each other.  Putter also is a veteran presenter, with a focus on the importance of  developing an excellent panel session to engage her colleagues. """

[pres_2]
first_name = "Joanne"
last_name = "Rizzi-Jones"
title = "Vice President, Science, Equity and Education"
institution = "Science Museum of Minnesota"
location = "Minneapolis, MN"
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Joanne Jones-Rizzi has a decades-long career working on systemic, ecological change within museums, specializing in expanding meaningful access through exhibitions relevant to audiences who do not yet think of museums as their cultural institutions. She advises museums nationally and internationally on culture, identity, anti-racism, exhibition development, and community engagement."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Eric"
last_name = "Nelson"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "National Nordic Museum"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Nelson has overseen the expansion of the National Nordic Museum from a small and beloved local heritage site into a nationally and internationally recognized center for sharing Nordic culture, values and innovation. Nelson also oversaw the development and move of the Museum into its stunning new $52.5M facility in 2018. The Museum showcases the impact and influence of Nordic values and innovation in contemporary society, and tells the story of 12,000 years of Nordic history and culture, across all five Nordic countries.
"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Risk-taking is an important part of human development, and can lead to significant learning opportunities. Whether physical, emotional or intellectual, the decisions around taking risks depend on the environment. What for some visitors may seem high-stakes or high-risk, may for others be a welcome challenge. What does it mean to encourage museum visitors, especially kids, to take risks in museums? Should we create exhibits and encourage interactions that help visitors develop decision-making and risk-assessment skills? 