+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP73"
sort_id = 73
timestamp = "11/22/2019 17:29:27"
form_email = "mbuff@tacomaartmuseum.org"
session_title = "Queer(y)ing the Museum"
session_desc = """“Queering” is the process of challenging assumptions, including heteronormativity, gender binaries, and systems of oppression. How can we use the practice of queering to query what we do in museums? What assumptions do we make about visitors, the art or artifacts exhibited, and the institution itself? Participants will explore how to unloose a straightjacket of assumptions and practices at all levels of the institution, freeing up a more welcoming place for staff and visitors alike."""
session_track = "Visitor Experience"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """We will address LGBTQ issues from a provocative, queer lens. Given the growing prevalence of LGBTQ people, museums must integrate inclusion into their everyday practice."""
session_objectives = """1.	Participants will examine examples of how to incorporate queer history and welcome LGBTQ individuals and family units.
2.	Participants will collaborate with colleagues to brainstorm assumptions, challenges to queering, and potential solutions, developing concrete deliverables for their own institutions.
3.	Participants will develop a feeling of comfort and ownership about how to create welcoming queer spaces.
"""
session_engagement = """The session will begin with a short roundtable panel discussion.
Then, participants will break out into groups based on specialization within the museum field. Panelists will serve as facilitators/instigators for the groups as they discuss applications to their specific area of work. Finally, the session will wrap up with a guided group discussion of what was discovered and what comes next.
"""
audience = "General Audience"
level = "Student, Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """As museums move forward, how can we learn from the wisdom of LGBTQ folks about going beyond binary expectations? This session will present unique ways of approaching museum conversations, shifting perspectives, and fostering relevance."""
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "sethmargolis"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Mac"
last_name = "Buff"
title = "Associate Director of Education for Student & Teacher Programs"
institution = "Tacoma Art Museum"
location = "Tacoma, WA"
tel = "253-272-4258 x3009"
email = "mbuff@tacomaartmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Mac is a queer, non-binary transgender educator who is actively engaged in advocacy for LGBTQ museum staff, volunteers, and visitors. They contributed to AAM’s Guides to Gender Transition and Transgender Inclusion in the Museum Field (2019), facilitated a regional discussion about AAM’s LGBTQ Welcoming Guidelines, and have presented on transgender inclusion at state, regional, and national conferences. """

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Paul"
last_name = "Gabriel"
title = "Learning Specialist"
institution = "Sparking Your Genius"
location = "San Francisco, CA"
tel = ""
email = "paul@sfspark.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Paul has extensive experience in the museum field, including as Exhibitions Director at the GLBT Historical Society. He will share strategies he has used in the past to tie in queer history with "traditional" historical narratives. This session builds on themes from Paul's "Camping the Museum" workshop at WMA 2019."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "W James"
last_name = "Burns"
title = "Museum Consultant"
institution = "n/a"
location = "Phoenix, AZ"
tel = ""
email = "wjamesburns@hotmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """James chaired the Alliance for LGBTQ Concerns at AAM for years. He has also served on regional and national boards."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Rose"
last_name = "Mathison"
title = "Student"
institution = "University of Washington Museology"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = ""
email = "rjmath@uw.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Rose is a queer museum professional with experience managing Visitor Services teams. They will bring the perspective of floor staff, as well as insight gained from their work at the University of Washington."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
“Queering” is the process of challenging assumptions, including heteronormativity, gender binaries, and systems of oppression. How can we use the practice of queering to query what we do in museums? What assumptions do we make about visitors, the art or artifacts exhibited, and the institution itself? Participants will explore how to unloose a straightjacket of assumptions and practices at all levels of the institution, freeing up a more welcoming place for staff and visitors alike.