+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP027"
last_modified = "2020-05-13T00:38:06.000Z"
session_title = "Driving Connections: Filling Community Needs and Creating Meaningful Partnerships"
session_desc = """Museums can fill educational gaps in communities by collaborating with local schools and colleges to provide enriching instructional opportunities that no one organization could offer alone. Learn how the World of Speed Motorsports Museum partners with nine local high schools and a community college to teach critical career and technical education classes, and engages the local community in their efforts. Explore how you can take the lessons learned and implement something similar in your museum."""
session_track = "Community Engagement"
session_track_id = "recC6VfwPTjNOi0nU"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Provides a 360-degree view of a success educational partnership while exploring ways in which the concepts can be applied in other museums."""
session_objectives = """1) Learn how a museum’s unique characteristics and strengths can help fill a need in a community. 2) Inspire participants to look at their museum, facilities, and collections in new ways with an eye to how they could be leveraged to offer regular, ongoing educational programming not offered in the local school systems. 3) Motivate museums to create synergistic partnerships with local funders and partners (foundations, donors, and businesses) to achieve common goals and serve community needs."""
session_engagement = """35 minutes for welcome, overview, and panelist comments. 15 minutes will be devoted to open Q&A with the panelists. 25 minutes will be spent in small group discussion (likely by museum type), brainstorming ways in which similar partnerships and programs can be instituted in other museums, and wrap up. A two-sided handout for discussion section will help audience visualize community connections. Resources needed: Projector for a short video; wireless microphone for the Q&A."""
session_scalability = """Any museum can take this basic concept and apply it in their own communities by leveraging their particular facilities and collections to fill an educational need in their area."""
audience = "Development and Membership Officers,General Audience"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """We have a sample of the handout we can send to you in PDF format to understand how it will be used in the breakout section. We have the presenters confirmed, and we will use our staff to help with breakout section, unless there are conference volunteers who'd like to help."""
theme_relationship = """Creating strategic partnerships with communities (both geographic and through affinity) moves museums forward by establishing connections that can translate into increased memberships and attendance, as well as other monetary support over time. These partnerships also help museums develop relevance and enhance their reputation within those communities, which provides forward momentum and growth. Successful experiences for students can help create life-long appreciation for all cultural institutions."""
theme_comments = """This session will also be good for executive leadership and development officers, who are often the ones to cultivate relationships within the community."""
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "lynnfederleorr"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Kelly"
last_name = "Harms"
title = "Grant Writer"
institution = "World of Speed Motorsports Museum"
location = "Wilsonville, Oregon"
tel = "503-563-6444 ext. 242"
email = "kelly@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = "Kellyharms@canby.com"
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """I am not moderating or presenting, but I will be a facilitator in the breakout section."""

[moderator]
first_name = "R. Lewis"
last_name = "Ferguson"
title = "Interim Executive Director and Education Director"
institution = "World of Speed Motorsports Museum"
location = "Wilsonville, Oregon"
tel = "503-564-6440"
email = "rlewis@worldofspeed.org"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "true"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Ferguson has overseen the program at World of Speed since the first year and serves as the primary liaison between the schools, community college, and community/business partners. He provides administrative oversight and coordination and has daily interactions with the instructors and the students. Ferguson is responsible for outreach about the program and school recruitment. He also uses the Museum’s connections in the automotive world to arrange for guest speakers and brings in business partners offering employment opportunities for students. He has over 25 years of program management and leadership in museum settings."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Cynthia"
last_name = "Risan"
title = "Dean – Technology, Applied Science, and Criminal Justice Division"
institution = "Clackamas Community College"
location = "Oregon City, Oregon"
tel = ""
email = "Cynthiar@clackamas.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Clackamas Community College is the instructional partner for the program. Ms. Risan heads up the department responsible for automotive education and is a strong supporter of the program, helping the Museum institute a second-year of classes in 2019. She insures there is adequate staffing and support for the program as a satellite facility for the college, which has increased over the four years of the program. She can speak to the challenges and opportunities of working with multiple schools and partners."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Saskia"
last_name = " Dresler"
title = "Principal"
institution = "Arts and Technology High School"
location = "Wilsonville, Oregon"
tel = "503-673-7376"
email = "dreslers@wlwv.k12.or.us"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Ms. Dresler is the person responsible for initiating the automotive Career and Technical Education program at World of Speed. In 2015, she approached the Museum about offering automotive classes in our garage area as this was an opportunity her small high school couldn’t provide its students. Within a few months, the first classes were held. Ms. Dresler’s enthusiastic support of the program helped spread the program to other high schools in her school district. By sharing the transformations she sees in her students, the Museum can provide real-world examples of the value of this education, particularly for at-risk students."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Mari Jo"
last_name = " Prlain"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "The Reser Family Foundation"
location = "Beaverton, Oregon"
tel = "503.526.5716"
email = "marijo@thereserfamilyfoundation.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """The Reser Family Foundation has a focus on education and has funded the program for three years. Under Ms. Prlain’s leadership, the Foundation developed a deep understanding of our program and formed a strong partnership with the Museum. In 2019, the Foundation made a two-year, $50,000 grant award to World of Speed’s automotive education program. This grant challenges the Museum to grow the numbers of school participating in the program and to add at least one new business partner who has internship opportunities for our students. Past grants have helped purchase needed but expensive equipment for the program."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Dave"
last_name = " Ruppert"
title = "Service Manager"
institution = "Gladstone Toyota"
location = "Gladstone, Oregon"
tel = "503-722-4850"
email = "druppert@toyotaofgladestone.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As the service manager at a Toyota dealership, Mr. Ruppert knows first-hand the impact of the country’s automotive technician shortage. After participating as a guest speaker, he hired two graduating seniors in the program as part of Toyota’s T-Ten program. Once the students were on board, they discovered another recent graduate of our program already on staff. He can speak to the private-sector benefits of partnering with collaborative education programs."""
+++
Museums can fill educational gaps in communities by collaborating with local schools and colleges to provide enriching instructional opportunities that no one organization could offer alone. Learn how the World of Speed Motorsports Museum partners with nine local high schools and a community college to teach critical career and technical education classes, and engages the local community in their efforts. Explore how you can take the lessons learned and implement something similar in your museum.