+++
ID = "WMA2020_WK7"
timestamp = "11/22/2019 15:11:10"
form_email = "alissa.seattle.architect@gmail.com"
session_title = "Focus Forward: Using the Pre-Design Process to Plan for Success"
session_desc = """Whether you’re starting, moving, expanding, or building your museum, you need effective plans. A strong pre-design process can set up your institution for future success. This process encompasses all the activities that go into preparing for a capital project, including strategic planning, market and economic feasibility, concept design, building design, business planning, preliminary capital cost estimates and fundraising feasibility. In this interactive workshop, discover which plans you need, what they’ll accomplish, and in what order."""
session_track = "Business"
session_type = "Half-day workshop (9:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.)"
session_unique = """This workshop brings together subject matter experts from a range of disciplines critical to planning a successful capital project."""
session_objectives = """This session is designed for museum professionals about to embark on a capital project. Through a series of mini-lectures and group breakout activities, participants will learn about the types of planning necessary to set up their institutions for success during the pre-design process.

Presenters will share guidelines, strategies, and case studies in the areas of business and strategic planning, fundraising and engagement, project management, and design/construction planning. Participants will leave the session with a firm grasp of how to manage the multi-pronged planning process necessary to launch a well-organized capital project.

Session attendees will:

1.      Evaluate the type and scope of pre-design plans and services best suited to different types and levels of donors.

2.      Assess decisions related to capital projects - including budget, schedule, stakeholders and outcomes - that support the museum’s mission and values.

3.      Be inspired by examples of plans, studies, and concept documents that have achieved a successful balance between goals and resources."""
audience = "Museum Leadership; professionals at museums embarking on a capital project"
level = "Senior Level"
other_comments = """This session will be most useful for professionals at museums that are embarking on or planning for a capital project. Museums may also send staff who will benefit from an introduction to the pre-design process."""
theme_relationship = """Our session complements the FORWARD theme, giving museums the tools to plan for the future through their next big capital project. Successfully executing the pre-design process enables museums to achieve any number of visions, from digitally integrated exhibits to LEED certified buildings to more accessible, inclusive spaces and beyond. """
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = ""
assignee = "jasonjones"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Alissa"
last_name = "Rupp, FAIA, LEED BD+C"
title = "Architect, Exhibit Designer, and Strategist"
institution = "N/A"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = ""
email = "alissa.seattle.architect@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Alissa brings over 20 years of experience in capital project design, management, and planning. She is a skilled facilitator and will ensure that the session is engaging, interactive, and informative for a wide range of museum professionals. """

[moderator]
first_name = "Love"
last_name = "Centerwall"
title = "Vice President of Development"
institution = "Oregon Museum of Science and Industry"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = ""
email = "LCenterwall@omsi.edu"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "true"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Love has spent almost two decades in nonprofit and fundraising work and brings an on-the-ground perspective to the workshop as Vice President of Development at the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry (OMSI). Having led development teams in university settings, social service organizations, and at OMSI and having lived through several capital campaigns, Love is well positioned to moderate this session. """

[pres_1]
first_name = "Cassie"
last_name = "Carter, PhD"
title = "Senior Consultant"
institution = "Campbell & Company"
location = "Los Angeles, CA"
tel = ""
email = "Cassie.carter@campbellcompany.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """With 30 years of experience in the nonprofit sector, Cassie has a deep understanding of what it takes to achieve long-term fundraising success and prepare for a significant capital campaign. As a fundraising consultant, she has guided a range of museums through capital campaign challenges and will bring this broad experience to her role in our workshop. """

[pres_2]
first_name = "Elena"
last_name = "Kazlas"
title = "Principal"
institution = "ConsultEcon"
location = "Cambridge, MA"
tel = ""
email = "ekazlas@consultecon.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Elena has over 20 years of international experience of attractions development from initial concept through design, construction, and start-up operations.  Elena’s expertise encompasses feasibility analysis, site analysis, development planning, and strategic operational and master planning for both new and existing museums and attractions.  She has a background in both economics and fine arts. Elena’s passion is preparing attractions for market and economic success."""

[pres_3]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Whether you’re starting, moving, expanding, or building your museum, you need effective plans. A strong pre-design process can set up your institution for future success. This process encompasses all the activities that go into preparing for a capital project, including strategic planning, market and economic feasibility, concept design, building design, business planning, preliminary capital cost estimates and fundraising feasibility. In this interactive workshop, discover which plans you need, what they’ll accomplish, and in what order.