+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP47"
sort_id = 47
timestamp = "11/22/2019 14:51:05"
form_email = "Beth.Dehn@oregon.gov"
session_title = "Oregon Heritage Commission Coordinator"
session_desc = """Disaster planning is essential for museums, but competing priorities and lack of technical knowledge can pose barriers. What if your museum didn’t have to go it alone? What could it look like to join a community effort with other cultural heritage organizations?

The Oregon Heritage Commission worked with the community of Cottage Grove to create a model heritage resource disaster response planning guide. Consider lessons learned and collaborative planning options within your museum’s community.  """
session_track = "Collections"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Oregon’s community heritage disaster response model is a first of its kind nationally. The model emphasizes the value of museums and heritage to the community. """
session_objectives = """The objectives of this session are to encourage museum professionals to: 1) consider the benefits of a collaborative community approach to disaster planning, 2) learn about the model Oregon Heritage created, and 3) leave inspired about the unique value museums and cultural heritage institutions have in community identity during disaster recovery.

After years of providing incentives and training for individual museums and heritage sites to create institutional disaster plans, Oregon Heritage staff have seen little sustained momentum on this important issue. Rather than continuing to work with heritage groups individually, Oregon Heritage tested the idea of bringing a community’s groups together to galvanize energy on the issue, share resources, and streamline communications between the groups, emergency managers, and city officials. Essential to this approach is the recognition that cultural heritage resources are central to community identity and need to be considered in the city’s wider disaster response plans.

Sharing this unique approach will encourage participants to consider the how they can collaborate with other community groups, consider if the framework the model plan lays out could work in their community, and leave with ideas for their own institutions.

"""
session_engagement = """After background on the project is presented, panelists will share lessons learned related to successes and failures of the project. Then the moderator will lead the audience through a series of questions that will be discussed in small-group conversations. The audience will discuss how they can connect to other community institutions for disaster planning. """
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, General Audience, Museum leadership, and future leaders"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """Disaster planning is the ultimate form of forward thinking, as plans are needed to ensure a museum’s collections and knowledge are available for generations to come. This session will describe an innovative community approach to disaster planning that places museums and culture at the center and encourages shared resources, community priorities, and reinforces the important role of museums during disaster recovery. """
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "kathleendaly"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Beth"
last_name = "Dehn"
title = "Oregon Heritage Commission Coordinator"
institution = "Oregon Heritage"
location = "Salem, Oregon"
tel = "503-986-0696"
email = "beth.dehn@oregon.gov"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """"""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Josh"
last_name = "Bruce"
title = "Program Director, Oregon Partnership for Disaster Resilience"
institution = "Institute for Policy and Research Engagement, University of Oregon"
location = "Eugene, Oregon"
tel = "541-346-7326"
email = "jdbruce@uoregon.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """The University of Oregon’s Institute for Policy and Research Engagement has provided technical expertise in this project and will speak about the process of creating a community disaster resiliency plan and lessons learned from community engagement and museum participation. """

[pres_2]
first_name = "Kuri"
last_name = "Gill"
title = "Grants and Outreach Coordinator"
institution = "Oregon Heritage"
location = "Salem, Oregon"
tel = "503-986-0685"
email = "Kuri.Gill@oregon.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Kuri plays a unique staff role in coordinating closely with all of Cottage Grove’s heritage groups. She will speak to the lessons learned on the ground when working through community outreach. """

[pres_3]
first_name = "Tara Sue"
last_name = "Hughart"
title = "Staff Coordinator"
institution = "Cottage Grove Museum"
location = "Cottaeg Grove, Oregon"
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """Cottage Grove Museum participated in the community heritage resource disaster initiative and will provide a small museum’s perspective on successes and challenges of participation as a museum. """

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Disaster planning is essential for museums, but competing priorities and lack of technical knowledge can pose barriers. What if your museum didn’t have to go it alone? What could it look like to join a community effort with other cultural heritage organizations?

The Oregon Heritage Commission worked with the community of Cottage Grove to create a model heritage resource disaster response planning guide. Consider lessons learned and collaborative planning options within your museum’s community.  