+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP095"
last_modified = "2020-05-13T00:38:06.000Z"
session_title = "High Risk, High Stakes, High Excitement: What is the future of risk-taking in museums?"
session_desc = """Risk-taking is an important part of human development, and can lead to significant learning opportunities in museums. Risks available to visitors may be physical, emotional or intellectual, and perception of that risk depends on context. In this session, museum staff, board members and designers will examine the role of risk in the museum environment. We’ll consider the power – and pitfalls – of integrating active play, controversial topics, scientific discoveries, and issues like gender, social justice and inclusion into exhibit design and programs."""
session_track = "Visitor Experience"
session_track_id = "recRPhS6vhktYR8ST"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Risk is only rarely discussed in museum exhibit and program design, yet it is inextricable from frequently mentioned concepts of citizenship, learning and critical thought."""
session_objectives = """This session is meant to raise an important topic that can touch on many of the most significant social and cultural issues of our time.   What for some visitors may seem high-stakes or high-risk, may for others be a welcome challenge. What does it mean to encourage museum visitors, especially kids, to take risks in museums? Should we create exhibits and encourage interactions that help visitors develop decision-making and risk-assessment skills? Attendees will be encouraged to think about how play, emotional engagement, parenting, controversial topics, scientific discoveries, and issues of gender, social justice and access might provide the context for experiences that visitors may see as posing a physical, emotional or intellectual challenge. We will discuss what makes an exhibit seem “risky” and what the “stakes” might be for visitors engaging with these exhibits. In addition: Session attendees will: 1.      Consider the idea of risk in museum environments, and think about how their organizations or facilities might engage with risk. . 2.      Assess decisions related to how other museums grapple with, and ultimately take on, the idea of risk. 3.      Be inspired by examples of exhibits, programs and installations that allow visitors (and staff) to take risks in the museum environment. See "other comments" below for notes related to program committee comments."""
session_engagement = """This session will engage a diverse panel of museum professionals, and will allow a significant amount of interaction among participants. Panelists will ask a series of interactive questions, allowing real-time on-screen voting.  This topic will benefit from small and large group discussion, and from a room with round tables for group work. Panelists will leave ample time for moderated discussion, so that participants can reflect on how the ideas presented relate to their own institutions."""
session_scalability = """The ideas presented here will be flexible with regard to museum type or size. Every museum, whether a children’s museum, art museum, science center or historic house can think about the role of risk in their learning environments, programs or events."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians,Marketing & Communications (Including Social Media),Development and Membership Officers"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """We are open to developing this topic in a less conventional format than the traditional panel. We have ideas about how to create a highly interactive session, bringing the idea of risk and comfort to the session itself. This session may be of most interest to those planning exhibits, programs, installations or events for their museums, but it will also be a powerful topic for others."""
theme_relationship = """The session is about how we move FORWARD with courage, clarity and conviction to bring challenges, new ideas, and engagement to visitors. Museums (and museum visitors and staff) will need to take some risks to remain relevant and compelling in the future, and also to remain competitive with with new trends in immersive and interactive commercial spaces. There are also always-evolving expectations with regard to the "tough topics" with which society is grappling."""
theme_comments = """Attendees will have access to these concrete takeaways: • We will do a series of exercises showing how to discuss risk with museum staff, and discuss the facilitation of the discussion. Attendees then can take these exercises back and facilitate them with their teams.  • Each panel member will bring an example of an exhibit where anticipated (or unanticipated) risks played out in the design, programming or ongoing use. We will provide a handout summarizing those exhibits.  • Table discussions will include a wide range of considerations including Defining Risk, as Risk looks very different to different people and Museums o Risk and Danger o Risk in discussion of politics and social issues  o Ricky vs scary – be clear about the difference o The book “50 Dangerous Things…” and its origin o Risk for adults vs for kids, and family risk taking o Risk to donors, or to the donor relationship """
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "marendougherty"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Alissa"
last_name = "Rupp, FAIA"
title = "Principal, Architect"
institution = "FRAME | Integrative Design Services"
location = "Seattle"
tel = "206-234-7217"
email = "alissa.seattle.architect@gmail.com"
email2 = "alissa.seattle.architect@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Alissa brings over 20 years of experience in the design of engaging, immersive and cohesive museum experiences. She is a skilled facilitator and will ensure that the session is engaging, interactive and informative for a wide range of museum professionals."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Putter"
last_name = "Bert"
title = "President / CEO"
institution = "KidsQuest Children's Museum"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "425-637-8100"
email = "putter@kidsquestmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Putter brings decades of experience leading and building children’s museums, and has thought deeply about how to welcome families into museum environments. She encourages visitors to learn, stretch, and engage with each other - to take risks! Putter also is a veteran presenter, with a focus on the importance of  developing an excellent panel session to engage her colleagues."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Eric"
last_name = "Nelson"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "National Nordic Museum"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206.789.5707"
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Nelson has overseen the expansion of the National Nordic Museum from a small and beloved local heritage site into a nationally and internationally recognized center for sharing Nordic culture, values and innovation. Nelson also oversaw the development and move of the Museum into its stunning new $52.5M facility in 2018. The Museum showcases the impact and influence of Nordic values and innovation in contemporary society, and tells the story of 12,000 years of Nordic history and culture, across all five Nordic countries."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Leonard"
last_name = "Garfield"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Museum of History and Industry (MOHAI)"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206 324 1126"
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Leonard Garfield leads MOHAI, where, "in a constantly changing world, Seattle’s long traditions of inventiveness and ingenuity illuminate what it means to be a place of innovation... [Seattle's] history exemplifies what it takes to stay on the leading edge, be a community willing to take risks, collaborate across boundaries, and persistently aim for the Next Big Thing." Leonard looks forward to discussing the many aspects of what risk means to museums."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Joanne"
last_name = "Rizzi-Jones"
title = "Vice President, Science, Equity and Education"
institution = "Science Museum of Minnesota"
location = "Minneapolis, MN"
tel = "(651) 221-9444"
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Joanne Jones-Rizzi has a decades-long career working on systemic, ecological change within museums, specializing in expanding meaningful access through exhibitions relevant to audiences who do not yet think of museums as their cultural institutions. She advises museums nationally and internationally on culture, identity, anti-racism, exhibition development, and community engagement."""
+++
Risk-taking is an important part of human development, and can lead to significant learning opportunities in museums. Risks available to visitors may be physical, emotional or intellectual, and perception of that risk depends on context. In this session, museum staff, board members and designers will examine the role of risk in the museum environment. We’ll consider the power – and pitfalls – of integrating active play, controversial topics, scientific discoveries, and issues like gender, social justice and inclusion into exhibit design and programs.