+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP101"
timestamp = "11/26/2019 23:43:54"
form_email = "tahneegt@icloud.com"
session_title = "500-Nations Within The United States, How Are You Representing Them? "
session_desc = """At the center of the diversity and inclusion movement, what are museums doing to work with the First Peoples of this continent? This session will present to you Native American representation in museums from Art curators and art writers who are Federally recognized Native American museum professionals. """
session_track = "Indigenous"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Accuracy of representation and inclusivity. """
session_objectives = """Identify an effective measure to abide Federal recognition of American-Indian, Alaskan Native, First Nations, Métis, and Inuit tribal documentation for inclusion.
Identify the purpose of federal laws about American-Indian and Indigenous arts, the threats of poor ethics when working with Indigenous communities, and why there are changes needed for increased inclusion of Native American professionals in museums.
Define the active voice of the modern presence in American-Indian and Indigenous Peoples in museums. This panel will provide new methods of credible sourcing, and best practices for authentication of individuals when representing Native American/American Indian peoples."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Registrars, Marketing & Communications (Including Social Media), Technology, Events Planning, Development/Membership, General Audience"
level = "Student, Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """Let me know if I didn’t fill the form out right. This might work better as a workshop. either way Im cool as long as the curators are still included.
"""
theme_relationship = """Embracing diversity, equity, inclusivity, and accessibility. Joining into unconventional and innovative partnerships. Creating positive and caring work environments for all museum staff, and boards. """
theme_comments = """Yes and no, I would like the three other proposed, but if they can't make it, I may need help. """
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = "No fee, but an expectation to engage through social media following, and constant contact sign up. "
assignee = "brendaabney"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Tahnee M. "
last_name = "Ahtoneharjo-Growingthunder"
title = "Curator & Tribal Liaison"
institution = "Oklahoma History Center"
location = "Oklahoma City, OK"
tel = "6512498770"
email = "tahneegt@icloud.com"
email2 = "tgrowingthunder@okhistory.org"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """to lead the discussion and keep it moving in a timely manner, and to not allow for the discussion to move to a remote subject. """

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "America "
last_name = "Meredith"
title = "Editor "
institution = "First American Art Magazine"
location = "Norman, OK"
tel = "505-699-5882"
email = "ahalenia@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As an editor of the First American Art magazine, she is on the front line of understanding the need for representation for her articles and artist promotion. """

[pres_2]
first_name = "Melissa "
last_name = "Melero Moose"
title = "Co-Founder"
institution = "Great Basin Native Artists Association"
location = "Reno, NV"
tel = "505-603-5157"
email = "melerom@hotmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """An curator, and artist Melissa is one of the top producing Native curators in the western region and can speak to the representation for the tribes in the Great Basin region. """

[pres_3]
first_name = "Miranda "
last_name = "Belarde-Lewis "
title = "Curator/ professor"
institution = "The Information School, University of Washington"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = "206-251-5613"
email = "mhbl@uw.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """A curator of contemporary Native art, she has developed curriculum in information knowledge communicated through Native art. """

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
At the center of the diversity and inclusion movement, what are museums doing to work with the First Peoples of this continent? This session will present to you Native American representation in museums from Art curators and art writers who are Federally recognized Native American museum professionals. 