+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP67"
last_modified = "2020-05-13T00:04:37.000Z"
session_title = "Times They Are A’Changing: How Rural Museums Cope with Fundamental Change"
session_desc = """The Evergreen Aviation and Space Museum is in the midst of a transition that forces a re-examination of how the museum operates and how money is spent, but this is not a unique problem to face. This session aims to discuss how we keep rural institutions relevant and sustainable by asking how they function in periods of drastic, institutional changes, and doing so without the resources bigger cities offer, like population, transportation, or donors."""
session_track = "Business"
session_track_id = "recLvGkztSUi5y89b"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Because rural museums face unique challenges, there should be a discussion as to what this looks like, and how successful or unsuccessful changes have happened."""
session_objectives = """1.	Discuss changes rural museums are seeing/experiencing, i.e. changing demographic landscapes, or resource limitations, and uncover solutions rural museums have instituted to address these changes. We also aim to assess their success or lack thereof.<br>2.	Inspire rural museums to tackle their local obstacles through sharing success stories and learning experiences.<br>3.	Foster a sense of “togetherness” between rural museums – create a support network to address changes unique to rural museums."""
session_engagement = """With an open seat on the panel, there is an opportunity for audience members to bring their questions and issues and have them addressed. This way we allow more space for different types of institutions to feel a part of the museum community. This space is particularly important for institutions that may feel alone in the problems they face."""
session_scalability = """As a part of the session/panel design, there will be an open seat for an audience member to join the discussion. With this open seat, there is an opportunity for audience members to bring their questions and issues and have them addressed. This way we allow more space for different types of institutions to feel a part of the museum community and, hopefully, less alone in the problems they face."""
audience = "General Audience"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """Anyone that is in a leadership position in a rural museum will learn in this session."""
theme_relationship = """This session relates to FORWARD in that rural museums exist in an environment with sometimes limited resources. Since change is always inevitable, this session aims to address how rural museums look to the future and address changes that are unique to rural areas."""
theme_comments = """I am willing to merge with another appropriate session. This panel is currently a mixed bag of confirmed, tentatively confirmed, and not-yet-approached presenters. After the application deadline, panelist selection will continue to develop."""
session_format = "Fishbowl"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "lynnfederleorr"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Lydia"
last_name = "Heins"
title = "Collections Manager"
institution = "Evergreen Aviation and Space Museum"
location = "McMinnville, OR"
tel = "503-687-2413"
email = "lydia.heins@evergreenmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """My contribution as moderator is my inspiration to have this discussion. My inspiration started with EASM going through tough financial times and how those hardships effected our operations. As the museum begins to tackle drastic fundamental changes, I wanted to hear how other institutions in rural areas cope in similar situations, particularly without the resources that a big city offers. Due to my genuine interest in discovering how rural museums cope with change, I will be able to direct the session’s discussion to answer some of the central questions that are presented."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Kathryn"
last_name = "Sinor"
title = "Education Director"
institution = "Evergreen Aviation and Space Museum"
location = "McMinnville, OR"
tel = "503-687-2442"
email = "kathryn.sinor@evergreenmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Ms. Sinor is a presenter because of her status as a pusher for change in the EASM. As Education Director, she has the ability to shape the curriculum of the museum’s programs and has placed DEI goals as the top priority. Also, through working at a mid-size institution in a rural area, Ms. Sinor is familiar with the challenges of instituting such changes in rural areas."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Tim"
last_name = "Glenn"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "John Wesley Powell River History Museum"
location = "Green River, UT"
tel = "435-564-0025"
email = "timothy.aaron.glenn@gmail.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Mr. Glenn is a presenter because of his previously demonstrated interest in issues rural museums face and wanting to create more of a network to solve those issues. After stepping in as Executive Director for an institution in need of change, Mr. Glenn values the unique qualities of his museum and how the rural locale presents unique challenges as well. As a contributor to this discussion of change in rural museums, Mr. Glenn can draw on his experiences of leadership and how they might apply to other rural organizations."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Hope"
last_name = "Benedict"
title = "Museum President"
institution = "Lemhi County Historical Society & Museum"
location = "Salmon, ID"
tel = "208-756-3342"
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """If confirmed to present in this session, Ms. Benedict would provide a unique perspective on the changing landscapes of rural communities. The Lemhi County Historical Society is scheduled to display a travelling exhibit about changes in rural America and how those changes effect other aspects of life. As the leader of an institution that appears to value DEI, Ms. Benedict can also offer a unique perspective on how rural area changes and DEI collide."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
The Evergreen Aviation and Space Museum is in the midst of a transition that forces a re-examination of how the museum operates and how money is spent, but this is not a unique problem to face. This session aims to discuss how we keep rural institutions relevant and sustainable by asking how they function in periods of drastic, institutional changes, and doing so without the resources bigger cities offer, like population, transportation, or donors.