+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP48"
sort_id = 48
timestamp = "11/22/2019 14:52:35"
form_email = "mdunstan@cityofboise.org"
session_title = "Where Creativity Dwells: Residencies as the Future of Museum Programming"
session_desc = """Residencies are increasingly being recognized as a valuable tool for bringing new audiences and ideas into museum settings, yet there is little consistency in the approach or language around these programs. This session will explore questions of what a residency can be, as well as the challenges, opportunities and audiences associated with them. Come hear examples from several institutions, each with a distinct mission, as they discuss different approaches to residency programs. """
session_track = "Community Engagement"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session is innovative as we have not yet established consistency or best practices when it comes to residencies. """
session_objectives = """1. Define what a residency is and why it can be a valuable program for museums.
2. Identify some of the challenges, opportunities, and audiences associated with residency programs.
3. Analyze and consider the current and changing language around residency programs.
4. View examples of residency programs found in a variety of museums, institutions, and organizations.
"""
session_engagement = """The audience will initially be in an observational/listening role as panelists respond to questions posed by moderator. After this, audience members then can ask questions to panel members.  """
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Development/Membership, General Audience"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """As this session explores how different institutions are facilitating residency programs, we feel that it strengthens the dialogue to offer a variety of perspectives on this topic. We envision this session running as a conversation rather than a series of presentations, and hope that the WMA will allow additional panelists to participate. """
theme_relationship = """Residencies are increasingly being recognized as a valuable tool for bringing new audiences and ideas into museum settings. It is important to establish an open dialogue between institutions to develop best practices and clear communication about what these programs are, and what they are capable of becoming. """
theme_comments = """"""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "mollywilmoth"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Makenzi"
last_name = "Dunstan"
title = "Cultural Sites Education and Outreach Coordinator"
institution = "James Castle House, Boise City Department of Arts & History"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-680-7790"
email = "mdunstan@cityofboise.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """As Education and Outreach Coordinator at the James Castle House, Makenzi works adjacent to the residency program. She regularly collaborates with the residents in the creation of public engagement events, and has a unique perspective on the way in which a residency program can enrich learning opportunities for a variety of audiences. She is eager to learn more about other programs’ approach to some of the challenges and opportunities they have faced, and how their audiences respond to these programs. """

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Kristen"
last_name = "Hill"
title = "Cultural Sites Program Coordinator"
institution = "James Castle House, Boise City Department of Arts & History"
location = "Boise, Idaho"
tel = "208-336-6610"
email = "khill@cityofboise.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """As the program manager for the James Castle House, Kristen established and continues to oversee the residency program. Her work focuses on the experience each of the residents has on site and establishing a symbiotic relationship between the residency and the community. """

[pres_2]
first_name = "Martha"
last_name = "Williams"
title = "Programs and Education Manager"
institution = "Hemingway House, Community Library"
location = "Ketchum, Idaho"
tel = "208-806-2621"
email = "mwilliams@comlib.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Martha oversees the newly founded residency program at the Hemingway House. She brings a unique perspective on the challenge between being a responsible steward of a historic home and established legacy, while also navigating what this fledgling program can become. """

[pres_3]
first_name = "Diana"
last_name = "Banning"
title = "City Archivist"
institution = "Portland Archives, City of Portland "
location = "Portland, Oregon"
tel = "503-865-4110"
email = "Diana.banning@portlandoregon.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Diana oversees the residency program offered by the City of Portland Archives. This program was established to contextualize the city’s history for contemporary audiences through art and community outreach projects. While also connected to a municipality, it follows a very different model than the James Castle House."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Carolina"
last_name = "Chambers"
title = "Portal to the Public Project Coordinator"
institution = "Pacific Science Center "
location = "Seattle, Washington"
tel = "cchambers@pacsci.org"
email = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Through her work as Portal to the Public Project Coordinator at the Pacific Science Center, Carolina oversees the museum’s artist-in-residence program. This program explores the connections between art and STEM, offering an opportunity for artist to collaborate directly with scientists in their work to something unexpected to the museum’s primary audiences. """
+++
Residencies are increasingly being recognized as a valuable tool for bringing new audiences and ideas into museum settings, yet there is little consistency in the approach or language around these programs. This session will explore questions of what a residency can be, as well as the challenges, opportunities and audiences associated with them. Come hear examples from several institutions, each with a distinct mission, as they discuss different approaches to residency programs. 