+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP53"
sort_id = 53
timestamp = "11/22/2019 15:12:08"
form_email = "connect@masonbeellc.com"
session_title = "Digging Deeper: Museum-Changing Community Partnerships"
session_desc = """How does a museum change when we invite communities to have a voice in our work? This session will explore this question through stories of transformative museum-community partnerships.  Each story will be told collaboratively by two people who know it well: one a museum professional and the other a community leader. The stories will focus on the firsthand experience of working together to impact exhibitions, collections, and processes in profound, and often unexpected, ways."""
session_track = "Community Engagement"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """By sharing stories of museums fundamentally changing their practice through close community partnerships, we aim to inspire others to seek their own brave collaborations."""
session_objectives = """Participants will:
1.	Understand the transformative power of community engagement based in deep, reciprocal collaboration.
2.	Identify contexts that both support and challenge the creation of respectful, reciprocal partnerships.
3.	Be able to imagine how their museum could partner and/or engage communities in meaningful ways.
"""
session_engagement = """Audience members will be invited to participate in four ways:
1.	Actively listening to the stories.
2.	Ask questions of the storytellers.
3.	Participate in discussion to identify the actions and contexts that supported or challenged the partnerships and community engagement across the stories.
4.	Work in small groups to imagine what meaningful collaboration could look like in their communities and institutions.

Resources include sticky notes, pens, and movable chairs.
"""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Events Planning, General Audience, Exhibit/Program Developers, Management"
level = "Mid-Career, Senior Level"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """For museums to continue forward, we have to be relevant. To be relevant, we need to understand and reflect our communities. Deep partnerships help us build relationships to do this work while elucidating the stories, processes, and objects that help us become truly meaningful public spaces. """
theme_comments = """It is important to include both museum professionals and community partners to tell these stories. For this reason, we would like to support partners participating in any way possible, be it in person at no/reduced cost (if only attending this session), via video conference, or other creative means. With that in mind, we request your support in imagining creative ways of adding more voices to the conference as well as the field through this (and hopefully other) sessions.

It is also important to note that the proposed moderator, Kyrie Kellett, is an independent museum professional (consultant). She is proposing this session for the sole purpose of encouraging more museums/communities to share their examples of how they can work together to tell diverse stories and build meaningful relationships. She will not be promoting any of her own products or services through the session and none of the presenters are currently her clients or sharing projects that she worked on.
"""
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "pomaitoledo"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Kyrie"
last_name = "Kellett"
title = "Principal"
institution = "Mason Bee Interpretive Planning"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503.419.7735"
email = "connect@masonbeellc.com"
email2 = "kyrie.kellett@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """I will moderate the session bringing together a variety of museum professionals and partners. I have done much of this work myself, but will focus on inviting museums/partner pairs to collaboratively tell their own stories from different types of museums and communities."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Ann"
last_name = "Craig"
title = "Director, Exhibitions and Programs"
institution = "Museum of Natural and Cultural History"
location = "Eugene, OR"
tel = "541-346-3116"
email = "acraig@uoregon.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """She worked closely with the Oregon Black Pioneers to tell the story of adapting the Racing to Change exhibition in Eugene and the deep community engagement work that went into that project. A representative of the Oregon Black Pioneers will present with Ann."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Dana"
last_name = "Whitelaw"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "High Desert Museum"
location = "Bend, OR"
tel = "(541) 382-4754"
email = "dwhitelaw@highdesertmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Dana would invite a collaborator from the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs to share the story of their partnership."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Cheryl "
last_name = "Hartup"
title = "Curator of Academic Programs and Latin American and Caribbean Art"
institution = "Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art"
location = "Eugene, OR"
tel = "541-346-0949"
email = "chartup@uoregon.edu"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Cheryl would collaborate with staff from Huerto de la Familia to share their collaboration at Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
How does a museum change when we invite communities to have a voice in our work? This session will explore this question through stories of transformative museum-community partnerships.  Each story will be told collaboratively by two people who know it well: one a museum professional and the other a community leader. The stories will focus on the firsthand experience of working together to impact exhibitions, collections, and processes in profound, and often unexpected, ways.