+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP85"
sort_id = 85
timestamp = "11/22/2019 19:11:13"
form_email = "dwhitelaw@highdesertmuseum.org"
session_title = "Weaving Stories:  Tribal and Non-tribal Museum Partnerships"
session_desc = """Many museums are working on indigenizing their work, programs, exhibitions and institutions. A clear path and protocol for this work does not yet exist to move our organizations forward.  Encouragingly, several institutions are working together in unique ways to find a path. In Central Oregon, two museums have a unique opportunity to use partnership, relationship building and creative professional development workshops to leverage their expertise and place-based focus. This session will provide clear insights about building relationships, moving partnerships forward between tribal and non-tribal institutions. """
session_track = "Indigenous"
session_track_id = "indigenous"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """This session will explore a unique tribal/non-tribal museum partnership that is inspiring, insightful and replicable at other motivated institutions."""
session_objectives = """Session attendees will learn and gain an understanding about:
1.	Building meaningful, mutually beneficial relationships between tribal and non-tribal museums
2.	Creating professional development opportunities to build capacity around indigenizing organizations.
3.	Indigenizing learning, evaluation, and institutions in a place-based, long-term, mutually beneficial manner.

Attendees will gain an understanding of how each process and context is so unique for tribal and non-tribal partnerships. Also, we have found that people tend to look for simple template or “best practices” when it’s more of a process that can be messy, unclear, and emergent. We will focus on ways to engage, challenges faced, and insights gained.
"""
session_engagement = """We thought that starting with short presentations from the participants perspectives would be helpful to then move into small, group and a think/pair/share with some prompting questions: What partnerships are they already engaged in? What partnerships might benefit their work around indigenizing? What does it mean to indigenize the museum? What’s driving that decision, and what does that look like? Is the institution ready and how would you know? Are you looking for marginal change or transformation?"""
session_scalability = """The outcomes are applicable to all institutions - we will present a process that can be adopted and adapted."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, General Audience, Board members"
level = "Student, Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level, General Audience"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """This session relates to the theme of FORWARD by delving into being forward thinking and the crucial need to address the colonial histories and institutional structures of museums both as an ethical imperative and a way to be leaders in society and to remain relevant. Moreover, this session helps move the conversation forward to shift the dominant narrative and provide a counter narrative."""
theme_comments = """We believe this will be valuable for many levels and departmental roles, especially for those interested or already engaged in partnerships between tribal and non-tribal museums. Additionally, this session is very important for individuals on Boards and in other leadership and decision-making roles."""
session_format = "Standard panel (2 or more panelists)"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "angelaneller"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Dana"
last_name = "Whitelaw"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "High Desert Museum"
location = "Bend, Oregon"
tel = "5416391182"
email = "dwhitelaw@highdesertmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """Dana has been co-leading the partnership with the Museum at Warm Springs with Liz Woody and can speak to the process, impact and sustainability of this unique partnership from a non-tribal perspective."""

[moderator]
first_name = "Jill "
last_name = "Stein"
title = "Principal"
institution = "Jks Consulting"
location = "Corvallis, Oregon"
tel = ""
email = "jks@jksconsulting.com"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Jill has extensive experience as an evaluator and facilitator and with culturally responsive evaluation. Jill has been working with the Museum At Warm Springs and the High Desert Museum and OMSI – as well as museums across the country. Her insight and thoughtful approach to the topic is invaluable."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Liz"
last_name = "Woody"
title = "Executive Director"
institution = "Museum At Warm Springs"
location = "Warm Springs, OR"
tel = ""
email = "liz@museumatwarmsprings.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Liz has been co-leading the partnership and project with the High Desert Museum and can speak to the process, impact and sustainability of the partnership from a tribal perspective."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Shelly"
last_name = "Valdez, Ph.D."
title = "Principal"
institution = "Native Pathways"
location = "New Laguna, NM"
tel = ""
email = "shilaguna@aol.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Shelly has worked in the area of education for 30+ years and currently owns & manages an educational consulting business, Native Pathways, (NaPs), located in central New Mexico. An important component of NaPs focuses is in the area of world views in science education, primarily focusing on indigenous science. She is the co-evaluator with Jill Stein on the High Desert Museum/Museum At Warm Springs partnership"""

[pres_3]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Many museums are working on indigenizing their work, programs, exhibitions and institutions. A clear path and protocol for this work does not yet exist to move our organizations forward.  Encouragingly, several institutions are working together in unique ways to find a path. In Central Oregon, two museums have a unique opportunity to use partnership, relationship building and creative professional development workshops to leverage their expertise and place-based focus. This session will provide clear insights about building relationships, moving partnerships forward between tribal and non-tribal institutions. 