+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP78"
sort_id = 78
timestamp = "11/22/2019 18:10:09"
form_email = "thecox@omsi.edu"
session_title = "Meet the Funders"
session_desc = """Have questions about funding opportunities, but don’t know where to start? Come to this Meet the Funders session where you will be introduced to various regional foundations, and have the chance to talk to them in small groups about your museums and project ideas. The “speed dating” format will allow you to meet funders and see if your project fits with their areas of focus. You will leave this session with a better sense of funding opportunities available to your institutions, and with a personal contact to follow-up with after the conference."""
session_track = "Business"
session_track_id = "business"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """One of the biggest concerns for large and small museums is fundraising. This session is a safe and easy way to learn about what funding is available, and to develop a personal relationship with funders."""
session_objectives = """Objectives:
To learn about various regional funding organizations.
To understand what types of projects fit best with which funders.
To be more strategic with fundraising efforts in your institution.

Outcomes:
Gain insight on 4-5 different funding organizations in various regions.
Understand what types of projects funders support.
Ask questions about your projects to the funders directly.
Collect names and contact information for each funder.
"""
session_engagement = """After a brief, 15-minute introduction by each of the funding agencies, participants will have three 20-minute sessions to sit with an individual funder and discuss their projects. After 20 minutes, participants will move to a different table and funder, repeating this a total of three times.
We will need four to five round tables in the room.
"""
session_scalability = """There will be various funding organizations present that provide grants to a wide variety of organization types and sizes, from large to small, and from historical to arts to science to children's museums and everything in between."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Registrars, Marketing & Communications (Including Social Media), Technology, Events Planning, Development/Membership"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career, Senior Level"
other_comments = """"""
theme_relationship = """To be FORWARD thinking, museums need to focus on funding for their institutions, as well as how funding ties to diversity, equity and inclusion and how their relationship with the community fit within this context."""
theme_comments = """We will be confirming presenters over the next month."""
session_format = "Speed Geeking"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "meguminegata"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Tim"
last_name = "Hecox"
title = "Federal Grants Manager"
institution = "OMSI"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "503 797 4637"
email = "thecox@omsi.edu"
email2 = "connect@oregonmuseums.org"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """I will meet with each presenter before the conference to confirm and refine what they will present. I will also provide timing and introduction and ending."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Aili"
last_name = "Schreiner"
title = "Trust Manager"
institution = "Oregon Cultural Trust"
location = "Salem, OR"
tel = "(503) 986-0089"
email = "Aili.Schreiner@oregon.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Aili has built a career in research, development and programming for cultural nonprofits and cultural agencies. Aili coordinates the Trust’s grant programs, marketing and development, technical assistance, and provides ongoing programmatic assessment and impact measurements."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Beth"
last_name = "Dehn"
title = "Heritage Commission Coordinator"
institution = "Oregon Heritage"
location = "Salem, OR"
tel = "(503) 986-0696"
email = "Beth.Dehn@oregon.gov"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """"""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Kyle"
last_name = "Weissman-Yee"
title = "Program Coordinator"
institution = "Oregon Humanities"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = "971-361-9883"
email = "kyle@oregonhumanities.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """"""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Have questions about funding opportunities, but don’t know where to start? Come to this Meet the Funders session where you will be introduced to various regional foundations, and have the chance to talk to them in small groups about your museums and project ideas. The “speed dating” format will allow you to meet funders and see if your project fits with their areas of focus. You will leave this session with a better sense of funding opportunities available to your institutions, and with a personal contact to follow-up with after the conference.