+++
ID = "WMA2020_SP105"
sort_id = 105
timestamp = "11/28/2019 14:18:33"
form_email = "melissa.isom@mri.gouv.qc.ca"
session_title = "Innovative design to engage your audience"
session_desc = """Site specific immersive installations and experiences bring with them a distinct set of opportunities and challenges. How can creative design be used to engage visitors and make content more accessible without an over-emphasis on technology. Through a case study and interactive discussion discover tips on creating engaging experiences by balancing immersive technology, entertainment, education and the site itself. The final goal: to create an emotional link with the audience, communicate rich content and engage and entertain."""
session_track = "Visitor Experience"
session_track_id = "visitorexperience"
session_type = "Regular session/panel (roundtable, single speaker, etc.)"
session_unique = """Engaging new & existing audiences is the key for everyone. Start with creative design, then augment that with the right technology to accomplish this on limited budgets."""
session_objectives = """New ideas on exhibit design and interactivity. It is not about the technology, it is about the way it effectively engages the audience and tells your story. Budget friendly technologies: sometimes non-tech, or low tech solutions can be implemented that enhance the content or make it accessible in a new way without breaking the bank. New thoughts on creating the best visitor experience for your venue."""
session_engagement = """Slides/ video of examples; distribution of case study Need further reflection on audience participation strategy"""
session_scalability = """The adoption of technology in exhibit development has been an intimidating one for small and medium sized museums, the goal of this session would be to discuss how a selective use of technology, combined with creative design is achievable outside of the large museum community. New ideas on exhibit design and interactivity. It is not about the technology, it is about the way it effectively engages the audience and tells your story. Budget friendly technologies: sometimes non-tech, or low tech solutions can be implemented that enhance the content or make it accessible in a new way without breaking the bank. New thoughts on creating the best visitor experience for your venue."""
audience = "Curators/Scientists/Historians, Technology, Events Planning, General Audience"
level = "Emerging Professional, Mid-Career"
other_comments = """I have several proposed participants for the panel but if there is another museum (preferably small - medium) who would be interested in speaking from their perspective, that would be acceptable."""
theme_relationship = """Technological innovation is very much part of the Forward theme but technological innovation without creative design and storytelling can be a recipe for failure. How do we move forward to embrace these new ways to present content in an intelligent and effective way?"""
theme_comments = """At this year’s meeting there was a lot of discussion about technology challenges: expense, obsolescence, etc. Many medium sized and smaller institutions felt that tech was out of reach for them but in discussions with creative designers, the feeling was that technology is just one of many tools that when used effectively can expands the physical limits of the museum and tell stories in a different way and that if used in only strategic places, it could be accessible for smaller organizations. I would like to see if this is a conversation that could be shared with the community in WMA."""
session_format = "Other"
session_fee = ""
assignee = "pattilarkin"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Melissa"
last_name = "Isom"
title = "Director, Business Development"
institution = "Quebec Government Office"
location = "Los Angeles, CA"
tel = "310-390-7943"
email = "melissa.isom@mri.gouv.qc.ca"
email2 = ""
is_mod = "false"
is_pres = "false"
justification = """I am not on the panel but can contact the proposed participants"""

[moderator]
first_name = "Seema"
last_name = "Rao"
title = "SXO"
institution = "Akron Art Museum"
location = "Akron, OH"
tel = "440-289-0222"
email = "SRao@akronartmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_pres = "false"
is_confirmed = "false"
justification = """She has had a lot of experience with technology use in museums."""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Nathalie"
last_name = "Gelinas"
title = "Producer, Immersive and Museum Experiences"
institution = "TKNL"
location = "Montreal, QC "
tel = "514-524-8520 #231"
email = "n.gelinas@tknl.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Nathalie has extensive experience in developing immersive experiences for cultural entities such as museums. She was the primary producer of a project called Northern Lights in Ottawa for which she will present her case study (mentioned in description of the session.)"""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Claire"
last_name = "Tousignant"
title = "Managing Partner"
institution = "MASSIVart"
location = "Montreal, QC"
tel = "514-419-3995"
email = "claire@massivart.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """MASSIVart works with museums and cultural institutions using a modern and unconventional approach to create exhibits with interactive and engaging content and design. MASSIVart collaborates with emerging and established talent from all over the world to provide multisensory stimulation, connectivity, and engagement through art. We work closely with emerging and established creators along with leading cultural institutions, developers, architects, design firms, and commercial venues to deliver exclusive art-driven experiences, events, unique content, installations, collections, and spaces."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Nicolas"
last_name = "Roy"
title = "Creative Director"
institution = "Dpt, Inc."
location = "Montreal, QC"
tel = "(514) 823-5322"
email = "nicolas@dpt.co"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Nicolas is the creative director at Dpt., an interactive storytelling studio. He has been directing and producing award winning, rich, immersive experiences for brands, museums, education and the entertainment industry for over 15 years. His work on has been recognized internationally, including by One Show, NUMIX, IDFA Digital Storytelling Award, the Webby Awards, Applied Arts Interactive, Communication Arts, Geminis and FWA. Nicolas is also a speaker, having given talks at numerous events including SXSW, World VR Forum, Mutek and Immersity."""

[pres_4]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""
+++
Site specific immersive installations and experiences bring with them a distinct set of opportunities and challenges. How can creative design be used to engage visitors and make content more accessible without an over-emphasis on technology. Through a case study and interactive discussion discover tips on creating engaging experiences by balancing immersive technology, entertainment, education and the site itself. The final goal: to create an emotional link with the audience, communicate rich content and engage and entertain.