+++
ID = "WMA2020_WK5"
last_modified = "2020-05-13T00:04:37.000Z"
session_title = "Museums as Family Friendly Workplaces: Exploring Strategies for Institutional Change"
session_desc = """Develop a Working Parents Toolkit to drive institutional change in your professional communities! This Toolkit is aimed at improving workplace policies as they affect parents (and others balancing work and out-of-work obligations).  Breakout discussions will include assessing and improving:<br><br>HOW PEOPLE WORK, for instance, increased flexibility or remote work.<br><br>WORKPLACE ENVIRONMENTS with childcare at work, mothers’ rooms, or other modifications.<br><br>POLICIES for parental leave/working parents.<br><br>WORKPLACE CULTURE to support working parents.<br><br>PERSONAL IDENTITIES to find professional and personal fulfillment.<br><br>PARENTING HOLISTICALLY and meet the evolving needs of parents as children age."""
session_track = "Business"
session_track_id = "recLvGkztSUi5y89b"
session_type = "Half-day workshop (9:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.)"
session_unique = """UNIQUE: Participants develop a shareable resource drawn from the successes and challenges of the WMA community.<br>RELEVANT: With ever-increasing numbers of working parents, workplace norms are not reflective of our society's needs."""
session_objectives = """MAIN OBJECTIVE:<br>Draft a Working Parent Toolkit to be shared throughout WMA and other professional communities.  This toolkit will be designed to guide discussions aimed at improving workplace policies as they relate to parents (or others balancing work and out-of-work obligations).  The toolkit will be accessible for both individuals and institutions to enact meaningful change.<br>Initial sections for the toolkit will be based off of breakout session themes but could evolve based on participant feedback.<br><br>BREAKOUT SESSION OBJECTIVES:<br>HOW PEOPLE WORK - provide well-documented examples of alternative working arrangements that are more suitable to parents while maintaining high work standards for institutions<br>ENVIRONMENTS - share successes of institutions which provide child-at-work options and explore how to build for or modify spaces to meet the needs of parents (e.g. for pumping at work)<br>POLICIES - examine parental leave and family-friendly policies from a variety of institutions and draft policies that workplaces could adopt of modify<br>WORKPLACE CULTURE - discuss strategies to enact cultural change to improve the working environment for parents, including, but not limited to, addressing “maternal wall,” “motherhood penalty,” and “career trees”<br>PERSONAL IDENTITIES - explore the social and emotional needs of parents and how to approach difficult topics, such as split identity as parent/professional, “mom guilt” and “work guilt”<br>PARENTING HOLISTICALLY - pull from the stories of parents with children of all ages and backgrounds to examine how the needs of parents may change throughout child-rearing years and how workplaces can create family friendly work environments beyond the early years"""
session_engagement = """Workshop will follow a highly participatory “open-space” format, which includes breakouts and whole group discussions.  (More extensive information about the workshop structure available if desired.)<br>Resources: Chairs/tables that can be re-arranged to shift from whole group to breakout groups, all within one large space to facilitate the “marketplace of ideas” (moving between conversations).  Round tables would be ideal to promote group interaction and make it easier for participants to have a surface for writing/typing, particularly given than a written product is the end goal of this session."""
session_scalability = """One of the main features of the Working Parent Toolkit developed through this workshop is for it to be accessible to museums of any size.  This will be a central component of the workshop and our discussions."""
audience = "General Audience"
level = "General Audience"
other_comments = """We are hoping that this workshop is enticing to both those who know little about this topic and want to learn more, as well as those who have expertise to share.  As the end result is a shareable product, we would like to have input from as wide a swath of people/institutions as possible."""
theme_relationship = """Through a Working Parent Toolkit, we seek to move museum values and policies FORWARD to better reflect the needs of our society, which has an ever-increasing number of families with both parents in the workplace.<br>We seek to enable participants to act as agents of social change by creating “positive and caring work environments,” and opening the museum field to broader impacts, such as increasing internal diversity by providing equitable working options for parents."""
theme_comments = """This workshop is an extension of a session presented at WMA 2019 (Motherhood and Museum Professionals).  The session was well received with multiple people recommending a follow up session at WMA 2020, and one person even going so far as to say this should be an annual discussion.

The themes for the breakout sessions come from participant feedback from the 2019 session.  Participants were given the option to share thoughts on sticky notes of what topics were “sticking” with them - 18 participants shared over 100 individual thoughts, which were coded into the topics that informed the development of the breakout session.

To further refine the discussion, in the coming months (pre-conference), the lead presenters will develop and widely distribute a survey to gather information about current workplace parental leave/family friendly policies, collect success stories and ideas for areas of improvement.

We envision this workshop as having farther-reaching effects than a one-off workshop.  We plan to continue working to create a robust Working Parents Toolkit document that can be shared via WMA and other community hubs, and potentially include follow up presentations in future WMA conferences.  (And hopefully, this would grow beyond the lead presenters.)

We are seeking to recruit breakout session facilitators via multiple routes: museum professionals and mothers who attended the 2019 session and expressed an interest in the topic, as well as presenters at other museum conferences who shared on related topics.  We will also be gathering information to share with participants from museums and other industries (for instance, museums with robust parental leave, as well as places like Starbucks headquarters, which has child-care on site).  (This would be similar to the WMA 2019 session led by Laura Fry and Karen McWhorter “Stronger Together: Creating Exhibitions Through Museum Partnerships” which pulled stories from multiple museums as examples and/or the presentation by Jennifer Ortiz, Keni Sturgeon, Koven Smith, and Samantha Forsko “Scaling Best Practices to Fit Your Museum” which took inspiration from larger museums and helped participants match those ideas to their own institutions.)

People we’ve already contacted to share their insights/possibly act as breakout session facilitators:
Presenters of an Infant-at-Work session at the AMM 2019 conference: Veronica Campbell, Port Huron Museum; Christy Kincaid, Air Zoo; Maria Newhouse, Air Zoo.

Working mothers and interested attendees of the 2019 Motherhood and Museum Professional session:
Chloe Duocette, Director of Education, Museum of Idaho
Anna Harbine, Archivist, Northwest Museum of Arts and Culture

People we’re planning on contacting:
Authors of a 2017 AAM blog post about why people are leaving the museum field: Sarah Erdman, Museum Blogger, Cabinet of Curiosities; Cladia Ocello, President & CEO, Museum Partners Consulting, LLC; Dawn Estabrooks Salerno, Deputy Director for Public Engagement and Operations, Mystic Museum of Art; Marieke Van Damme, Executive Director, Cambridge Historical Society

Presenters at SEMC 2019 Session entitled “Women on the Rise: Truths and Myths Revisted:” Heather Nowak, Preschool Director, Destiny Worship Center, Miramar Beach, FL; Lisa Littlefield, Director, Center for Career Development and Experiential Education, Hood College, Frederick, MD; Lucy Allen, retired Museum Division Director, Mississippi Department of Archives and History, Jackson, MS; Cheryl Call, Deputy General Counsel, Blackbaud, Charleston, SC

Presenters at SEMC 2018 Session entitled “Women on the Rise”
Heather Nowak, Former Director, Miramar Beach, FL; Laura Lott, President & CEO, American Alliance of Museums, Arlington, VA; Betsy Bradley, Executive Director, Mississippi Museum of Art, Jackson, MS; Joan Baldwin, blogger and writer, Leadership Matters and Women in the Museum, Lakeview, CT

If desired by the program committee, we could modify this workshop into a double-length session rather than a pre-conference workshop.  (Or offer it as an afternoon pre-conference workshop to accommodate morning field trips.)

Also, we’re not 100% loving the title for this session, but needed to get this submitted!  If anyone has any suggestions for a title that is more expressive of what this session will actually shape up to be and do, please share!

Please let us know how we can assist in developing and enacting a plan for childcare at WMA.  We would like to “walk the walk” and make a positive change for working parents in the WMA community.  (Also, one of the presenters is a Portland native and may be able to secure babysitter/nanny connections for this conference if desired.)
"""
session_format = ""
session_fee = "Possibly a fee to provide some type of lunch/snack?  Depending on other workshops scheduled, we would like to be able to accommodate participants coming from one workshop (such as a field trip to a museum) and then being at this workshop (or vice versa).  As such, we might want to provide food.    Also, we would like to explore the idea of offering childcare for this session (as well as all of WMA, if that’s possible!) and that may also include a fee."
assignee = "jasonjones"
submission_year = "2020"

[submitter]
first_name = "Lindsey"
last_name = "Snyder"
title = "PhD Student - Museum Education"
institution = "University of British Columbia"
location = "Ferndale, WA"
tel = "8154830228"
email = "lsnyder1222@gmail.com"
email2 = "lsnyder1222@gmail.com"
is_mod = "true"
is_pres = "true"
justification = """As a mother of three, the topic of how museums can better support working parents is of personal and professional interest to Lindsey.  Though she stumbled into this topic when asked to develop the WMA 2019 Motherhood and Museum Professionals session, Lindsey is now committed to working to improve museum workplaces for all (not just working parents).  As a PhD student and museum educator, she has a great deal of experience as a discussion facilitator, which will be central to our workshop format.  She also has experience analyzing survey data, which will inform the workshop/final product.  Lindsey will lead the breakout session addressing different formats for work beyond the traditional 9-5 in person mode."""

[moderator]
first_name = ""
last_name = ""
title = ""
institution = ""
location = ""
tel = ""
email = ""
email2 = ""
is_pres = ""
is_confirmed = ""
justification = """"""

[pres_1]
first_name = "Teresa"
last_name = "Valencia"
title = "Director of Curation and Education"
institution = "Iolani Palace"
location = "Honolulu, HI"
tel = ""
email = "curator@ioloanipalace.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Teresa first started the conversations that led to the 2019 Motherhood and Museum Professionals session.  She is a working mother who has dealt with many issues, and seeks to share her experiences with others.  Teresa cares about social justice and change in museums - both in outward-facing exhibition and education, and internally as related to museum staff or policies.  She is a big thinker who brings a lens of criticality and questioning, that will serve the workshop participants as they work to develop a toolkit that can have a positive impact on museums as workplaces.  Teresa will lead the "workplace culture" breakout session."""

[pres_2]
first_name = "Thea"
last_name = "Block"
title = "Family Life Educator"
institution = "Self-employed"
location = "Portland, OR"
tel = ""
email = "thea.e.block@gmail.com"
email2 = "thea.e.block@gmail.com"
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Thea provides much-needed insight into the psychological and social health implications of various workplace policies, which she scratched the surface of in the 2019 WMA Motherhood and Museum Professional session.  Thea holds a Masters in Family Studies (MAFS) from Fuller Theological Seminary’s School of Psychology, and is a Certified Family Life Educator (CFLE) with the National Council for Family Relations (NCFR).  She uses research-based strategies to teach families how to lead healthier lives, and is currently enjoying putting that knowledge into practice personally as she and her husband welcomed their first child in 2019.  Thea will lead the breakout session on navigating conflicting personal identities of parent/professional."""

[pres_3]
first_name = "Dakota"
last_name = "Keene"
title = "Principal, ASLA, LEED AP BD+C"
institution = "Mithun"
location = "Seattle, WA"
tel = ""
email = "dakotak@mithun.com"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Dakota was an enthusiastic participant during the 2019 WMA Motherhood and Museum Professionals session - and a working mother with many stories to share!  She is a landscape architect by trade, but will be focusing her conversation at this workshop on how museums can make their physical environments better suited to working parents, whether that through spaces for childcare or lactation rooms, etc. etc.  Dakota is skilled in facilitating discussions and assisting communities to take fledgling thoughts and turn them into realities.  Her skills in this regard will be quite helpful as we work to develop a highly usable working parents toolkit."""

[pres_4]
first_name = "Kathy "
last_name = "Clark"
title = "Development Manager"
institution = "Desert Caballeros Western Museum"
location = "Wickenburg, AZ"
tel = ""
email = "kclark@westernmuseum.org"
email2 = ""
is_confirmed = "true"
justification = """Kathy attended the 2019 WMA Motherhood and Museum Professional session and expressed a keen interest in extending the conversation.  Kathy is the parent of tween/teen children and has found that this stage of life is something that needs to be addressed by workplaces in order for working parents/families to thrive.  Though her background is in development, Kathy is keen to provide her assistance in making sense of the survey data prior to this workshop and using that to inform breakout sessions.  Kathy will lead the breakout session on addressing parenting holistically across all child-rearing years."""
+++
Develop a Working Parents Toolkit to drive institutional change in your professional communities! This Toolkit is aimed at improving workplace policies as they affect parents (and others balancing work and out-of-work obligations).  Breakout discussions will include assessing and improving:<br><br>HOW PEOPLE WORK, for instance, increased flexibility or remote work.<br><br>WORKPLACE ENVIRONMENTS with childcare at work, mothers’ rooms, or other modifications.<br><br>POLICIES for parental leave/working parents.<br><br>WORKPLACE CULTURE to support working parents.<br><br>PERSONAL IDENTITIES to find professional and personal fulfillment.<br><br>PARENTING HOLISTICALLY and meet the evolving needs of parents as children age.